UNITED STATES 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
 
FORM 10-K 
 
	746;     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
For the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 
 
or 
 
	744;     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
Commission File No. 0-26841 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 
 
 
DELAWARE                                 11-3117311 
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer 
incorporation or organization)  Identification No.) 
  

 
One Old Country Road, Carle Place, New York 11514 
 
(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip code) 
 
(516) 237-6000 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 
 
 
Title of each class                             Name of each Exchange on which registered 
Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. 
  

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as 
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes 	744; No 	745; 
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports 
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15 (d) of the Act. Yes 	744; No 	745; 
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such 
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes 	745; No 	744; 
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and 
posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required 
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 
232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter 
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   Yes 
	745; No 	744; 
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. 	744; 
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an 
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See 
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller 
reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 
 
 
Large accelerated filer 744;                                 Accelerated filer 745; 
Non-accelerated filer 744; (Do not check if a smaller        Smaller reporting company 744; 
reporting company) 
  

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in 
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes =551; No 	745; 
 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last business 
day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, December 
28, 2014, was approximately $281,000,000.  The registrant has no non-voting 
common stock. 
 
30,900,816 
 
(Number of shares of class A common stock outstanding as of September 4, 2015) 
 
34,030,044 
 
(Number of shares of class B common stock outstanding as of September 4, 2015) 
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
 
Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders (the Definitive Proxy Statement) are incorporated by 
reference into Part III of this Report. 
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, INC. 
 
 FORM 10-K 
 
For the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 
 
INDEX 
 
 
 
Part I. 
Item 1.    Business                                                                        1 
Item 1A.   Risk Factors                                                                   13 
Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments                                                      21 
Item 2.    Properties                                                                     22 
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings                                                              23 
Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures                                                        24 
           Executive Officers of the Registrant                                           25 
Part II. 
Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer  27 
           Purchases of Equity Securities 
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data                                                        29 
Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of     31 
           Operations 
Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk                     53 
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                    53 
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial      53 
           Disclosure 
Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures                                                        53 
Item 9B.   Other Information                                                              57 
Part III. 
Item 10.   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                         57 
Item 11.   Executive Compensation                                                         57 
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related     57 
           Stockholder Matters 
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      57 
Item 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                         57 
Part IV. 
Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                        58 
Signatures                                                                                60 
  

 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
PART I 
 
Item 1. BUSINESS 
 
The Company 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is 
the world's leading florist and gift shop. For nearly 40 years, 
1-800-FLOWERS(R) (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) has been helping 
deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh 
flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, 
confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% 
Smile Guarantee(R) backs every gift. 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was recently named in 
Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile 
commerce sites. Additionally, the Company was included in Internet Retailer's 
2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM 
was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award 
by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM was awarded the 2014 Silver Stevie Award, recognizing the 
organization's outstanding Customer Service and commitment to our 100% Smile 
Guarantee(R).  1-800-FLOWERS.COM received a Gold Award for Best User Experience 
on a Mobile Optimized Site for the 2013 Horizon Interactive Awards. 
 
The Company's BloomNet(R) international floral wire service 
(www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added 
services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses 
profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such 
as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David(R) 
(1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from 
The Popcorn Factory(R)(1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies 
and baked gifts from Cheryl's(R) (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium 
chocolates and confections from Fannie May(R) (www.fanniemay.com and 
www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com(R) 
(www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from 
Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit 
arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality 
steaks and chops from Stock Yards(R) (www.stockyards.com). 
 
On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David 
Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David"), a leading multi-channel specialty retailer 
and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and 
other gifts marketed under the Harry & David(R), Wolferman's(R) and 
Cushman's(R) brands. The transaction, at a purchase price of $142.5 million, 
included the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, 
manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a 
warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 48 Harry & David retail 
stores located throughout the country. Harry & David's revenues were 
approximately $386 million in fiscal 2014, with Adjusted EBITDA of 
approximately $28 million. 
 
Including the contribution of Harry & David from date of acquisition, the 
Company generated total annual net revenues of $1.12 billion and Adjusted 
EBITDA of $95.3 million for fiscal 2015 (excluding stock based compensation, 
transaction/integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to 
the Harry & David acquisition and the impact of the Fannie May warehouse fire) 
- refer to Non-GAAP reconciliation tables included within MD&A in Item 7. It 
should be noted that the revenue and Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal 2015 do not 
include the results of Harry & David for the fiscal first quarter of the year, 
which is typically its lowest in terms of revenues and includes significant 
losses due to the seasonality of its business. The historical results of Harry 
& David, as well as applicable pro forma results are included in the Company's 
Form 8-K/A filed on December 16, 2014. 
 
In order to finance the acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered 
into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a 
group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million 
five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 
2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a 
seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be 
used for working capital (subject to the applicable sublimit) and general 
corporate purposes. 
 
  1 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio 
warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, 
the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 
2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the 
facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its 
Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in 
its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during 
the holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase 
production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products 
at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and 
distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability 
was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during the fiscal second 
and third quarters of fiscal 2015. The Company does not believe that there will 
be any further significant impact on revenues from this issue beyond the year 
ended June 28, 2015. 
 
The impact of lost sales related to the fire was estimated to be $17.3 million 
during the year ended June 28, 2015, with corresponding loss of income from 
continuing operations before income taxes of $6.6 million. While no insurance 
recoveries have been recorded to date related to lost sales, the Company 
expects that its property and business interruption insurance will cover these 
losses. 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
Winetasting Network business on December 31, 2013. The Company has classified 
the results of the e-commerce and procurement business of The Winetasting 
Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
 
Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select 
Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. 
 
References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "1-800-FLOWERS.COM" and the 
"Company" refer to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company's 
principal offices are located at One Old Country Road, Suite 500, Carle Place, 
NY 11514 and its telephone number at that location is (516) 237-6000. 
 
The Origins of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM 
 
The Company's operations began in 1976 when James F. McCann, its Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, acquired a single retail florist in New York City, 
which he subsequently expanded to a 14-store chain. Thereafter, the Company 
modified its business strategy to take advantage of the rapid emergence of 
toll-free calling. The Company acquired the right to use the toll-free 
telephone number 1-800-FLOWERS, adopted it as its corporate identity and began 
to aggressively build a national brand around it. The Company believes it was 
one of the first companies to embrace this new way of conducting business. 
 
In order to support the growth of its toll-free business and to provide 
superior customer service, the Company developed an operating infrastructure 
that incorporated the best available technologies. Over time, the Company 
implemented a sophisticated transaction processing system that facilitated 
rapid order entry and fulfillment, an advanced telecommunications system and 
multiple customer service centers to handle increasing call volume. 
 
To enable the Company to deliver products reliably nationwide on a same-day or 
next-day basis and to market pre-selected, high-quality floral products, the 
Company created BloomNet(R), a nationwide network including independent local 
florists selected for their high-quality products, superior customer service 
and order fulfillment and delivery capabilities. 
 
As the world's leading florist and gift shop, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM offers a broad 
range of truly original gifts through a multi-channel strategy, making it easy 
for millions of customers to deliver smiles for every occasion. Complementing 
its retail, telephonic and ecommerce channels, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM is a 
pacesetter in social and mobile platforms, pioneering award-winning marketing 
programs and applications. As a result, the Company has developed relationships 
with customers who purchase products for both a broad range of celebratory 
gifting occasions as well as for everyday personal use. The Company offers a 
broad selection of unique products that a customer could expect to find in a 
high-end florist and gift shop, including a wide assortment of cut flowers and 
plants, candy, balloons, plush toys, giftware, gourmet gift baskets, and fruit 
bouquet arrangements. The Company has also significantly expanded its presence 
in the gourmet food and gift baskets category, which the Company has identified 
as having significant revenue and earnings growth potential, through a 
combination of organic initiatives and strategic acquisitions. The addition of 
Harry & David in September 2014 accelerated the Company's strategy to leverage 
its leadership position built in the floral gifting category to create what is 
fast becoming a leading position in the growing Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets 
category. The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment now represents more than 56% 
of the Company's overall revenues. 
 
  2 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's Strategy 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM's objective is to be the leading authority on thoughtful 
gifting, to serve an expanding range of our customers' celebratory needs, 
thereby helping our customers express themselves and connect with the important 
people in their lives. The Company will continue to build on the trusted 
relationships with our customers by providing them with ease of access, 
tasteful and appropriate gifts, and superior service. 
 
The Company believes that 1-800-FLOWERS.COM is one of the most recognized 
brands in the floral and gift industry. The strength of its brand has enabled 
the Company to extend its product offerings beyond the floral category into 
complementary products, which include gourmet popcorn, cookies and related 
baked and snack food products, premium chocolate and confections, wine gifts, 
gourmet gift baskets, fruit bouquet arrangements, as well as gift-quality 
fruit. This extension of gift offerings helps our customers in all of their 
celebratory occasions, and will enable the Company to increase the number of 
purchases and the average order value by existing customers who have come to 
trust the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brand, as well as continue to attract new 
customers. As referenced later, the Company recently launched its new 
consolidated customer database and multi-brand website which should benefit all 
brands by further enhancing the Company's position as the leading, one-stop 
destination for all of our customers' gifting and celebratory needs. 
 
The Company believes its brands are characterized by: 
 
 
 
679; Convenience. All of the Company's product offerings can be purchased 
     either via the web and wireless devices, or via the Company's toll-free 
     telephone numbers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, for those customers 
     who prefer a personal gift advisor to assist them. The Company offers a 
     variety of delivery options, including same-day or next-day service 
     throughout the world. 
  

 
 
 
679; Quality. High-quality products are critical to the Company's continued 
     brand strength and are integral to the brand loyalty that it has built 
     over the years. The Company offers its customers a 100% satisfaction 
     guarantee on all of its products. 
  

 
 
 
679; Delivery Capability. The Company has developed a market-proven fulfillment 
     infrastructure that allows delivery on a same-day, next-day and any-day 
     basis. Key to the Company's fulfillment capability is an innovative 
     "hybrid" model which combines BloomNet (comprised of independent florists 
     operating retail flower shops, Company-owned stores, and franchised 
     stores), with its manufacturing and distribution centers located in 
     Florida, Illinois, Nevada, New York , Ohio, Tennessee and Oregon, and 
     third-party vendors who ship directly to the Company's customers. 
  

 
 
 
679; Selection. Over the course of a year, the Company offers more than 9,800 
     varieties of fresh-cut flowers, floral and fruit bouquets and plants, and 
     more than 8,200 SKUs of gifts, gourmet foods and gift baskets, cookies and 
     chocolates. 
  

 
 
 
679; Customer Service. The Company strives to ensure that customer service, 
     whether online, wireless, via the telephone, or in one of its retail 
     stores is of the highest caliber. The Company operates customer service 
     centers in Ohio and Oregon, while also utilizing a network of home agents 
     and outsourcers to provide helpful assistance on everything from advice on 
     product selection to the monitoring of the fulfillment and delivery 
     process. 
  

 
  3 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
As part of the Company's continuing effort to serve the thoughtful gifting 
needs of its customers, and leverage its business platform, where appropriate, 
the Company intends to expand the breadth of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand. The 
Company intends to accomplish this through organic growth, and where 
appropriate, through acquisition of complementary businesses. A summary of the 
Company's more significant brands and/or businesses follows: 
 
 
 
CONSUMER FLORAL SEGMENT 
Direct-to-consumer provider of fresh flowers, plants, fruit and gift basket 
products, balloons, candles and plush stuffed animals. 
Direct-to-consumer provider of carved fresh fruit arrangements. 
Direct-to-consumer provider of floral and gift related products sold and 
delivered throughout Europe, acquired majority control in December 2013. 
Franchisor and operator of retail flower shops, acquired in August 2011. 
BLOOMNET WIRESERVICE SEGMENT 
Provider of products and services to the professional florist. 
Wholesale merchandiser and marketer of floral industry products, acquired in 
July 2008. 
GOURMET FOOD & GIFT BASKETS SEGMENT 
Multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of premium gift quality fruit, 
gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry & David(R), 
Wolferman's(R) and Cushman's(R) and Moose Munch(R) brands, acquired in 
September 2014. 
Manufacturer of giftable premium popcorn and specialty treats, acquired in May 
2002. 
Manufacturer and retailer of premium chocolates and confections, acquired in 
May 2006. 
Baker of premium cookies and related baked gifts, acquired in March 2005. 
Includes Mrs. Beasley's, a baker of cakes, muffins and gourmet gift baskets, 
acquired in March 2011. 
E-commerce retailer of gift baskets and towers. 
Designer, assembler and distributor of wholesale gift baskets, gourmet food 
towers and gift sets, acquired in April 2008. 
  

 
As a complement to the Company's own brands and product lines, the Company has 
formed strategic relationships with brands such as Lenox(R), Waterford(R), 
Yankee Candle(R), Junior's(R) Cheesecakes, The Cheesecake Factory(R), 
Starbucks(R) and Swarovski(R). The Company also continues to develop signature 
products in order to provide its customers with differentiated products and 
further its position as a destination for all of their gifting needs. 
 
  4 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
As a provider of gifts to consumers and wholesalers for resale to consumers, 
the Company is subject to changes in consumer confidence and the economic 
conditions that impact our customers. Demand for the Company's products is 
affected by the financial health of our customers, which, in turn, is 
influenced by macro economic issues such as unemployment, fuel and energy 
costs, trends in the housing market and availability of consumer credit. While 
consumers appear more upbeat about the economy, during the recent economic 
downturn, the demand for our products had been adversely affected by the 
reduction in consumer spending, and the Company expects that its revenues will 
continue to be closely tied to changes in consumer sentiment. 
 
Fiscal 2015 was a transformative year for the Company. The acquisition of the 
iconic Harry & David brands helped the Company to extend its position as a 
leading, omni-channel provider of top quality gifts that resonate with our 
customers for all of their celebratory occasions. This acquisition combined 
with continued organic improvement within all segments of the Company's core 
businesses have resulted in a business exceeding $1.1 billion in revenue during 
fiscal 2015. However, fiscal 2015 was not without its challenges, the most 
significant of which was the Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse fire on Thanksgiving 
Day which destroyed most of Fannie May's inventory, which was at its annual 
peak in preparation for the upcoming Holidays. As a result, the Company had 
limited supplies of its Fannie May chocolate products available in its retail 
stores as well as for its e-commerce and wholesale channels during the holiday 
season. While the Company immediately implemented contingency plans to increase 
production at its facility in Canton, Ohio, and to shift warehousing and 
distribution operations to alternate facilities, product availability was 
severely limited. In addition to the fire, the Company effectively steered its 
way through the challenging day placement of Valentine's Day, which moved from 
Friday in fiscal 2014 to Saturday in fiscal 2015. This shift presented not only 
logistical challenges related to Friday/Saturday deliveries, but also impacted 
overall demand as customers have more gifting options, such as dining out, when 
Valentine's Day falls on a weekend. 
 
Recognizing the need to balance the Company's short and long-term operating and 
financial objectives, the primary objectives during fiscal 2016 are to generate 
outsized earnings growth under a strategy which minimizes risk by focusing on 
achieving moderate revenue growth from the Company's core businesses, while 
driving synergistic opportunities from the acquisition of Harry & David which 
are expected to generate $15 million in operating synergies over a 3-year 
period and contribute significant, multi-channel revenue growth synergies. 
Tempered by the current economic climate, during fiscal 2016, the Company 
expects to achieve consolidated revenue growth for the year in a range of 
five-to-seven percent, compared with revenues of $1.12 billion reported for 
fiscal 2015. In terms of bottom-line results, the Company expects to grow 
EBITDA approximately 10% and EPS in excess of 20 percent, compared with pro 
forma fiscal 2015 Adjusted EBITDA* of $80.5 million and pro forma fiscal 2015 
Adjusted EPS* of $0.33 per diluted share. (*Pro forma fiscal 2015 Adjusted 
EBITDA and Adjusted EPS include seasonal losses associated with Harry & David 
that are incurred in its fiscal 2015 first quarter. These losses were not 
captured in the Company's fiscal 2015 results due to the close of the 
acquisition on September 30, 2014.) 
 
When the Company launched its integration efforts for Harry & David in January 
of 2015, it created an all-encompassing program designed to look at how the 
Company can enhance all aspects of its business. As a result of this approach, 
workstreams in areas including marketing and merchandising, manufacturing, 
distribution, finance, and human resources are focusing on identifying and 
achieving a number of initiatives that will enable it to drive enhanced top and 
bottom-line growth, in fiscal 2016, including: 
 
 
 
679; Cost synergy opportunities - where the Company has made significant 
     headway towards identifying and implementing the programs that are 
     expected to drive $15 million in synergies over the next three years. 
     While we continue to focus on capturing these cost synergies, the Company 
     is also working on revenue opportunities in areas such as: 
  

 
 
 
679; Our combined customer database - where we have new software tools that can 
     help the Company to significantly enhance the relevancy of our marketing 
     messages so that we can expand and deepen our relationships with the 
     customers in our significant database; 
  

 
 
 
679; Our multi-brand website - launched in fiscal 2015, the Company is now 
     focusing its marketing efforts on developing and growing its multi-branded 
     customer, providing for increased customer counts and purchase frequency 
     through increased penetration of its suite of floral and food gift 
     products, including the recently acquired Harry & David brand. Through the 
     multi-brand website, the Company is creating a one-stop gift shop 
     featuring all of our brands with a single shopping cart, a single address 
     book, the Celebrations Rewards and Reminders programs and the Celebrations 
     Passport free shipping program - all designed to ease the customers' 
     gifting experience, and 
  

 
  5 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
679; Our Mass-Channel - where the Company can leverage its wholesale account 
     relationships along with our manufacturing capabilities and expanded 
     production capacities to grow our business with brands like Moose Munch, 
     Wolferman's, the Popcorn Factory and Harry London. 
  

 
The Company believes that these initiatives and its continued focus on the 
following core values will drive long-term profitable growth: 
 
 
 
679; Know and Take Care of Our Customer - by providing the right products and 
     the best services with consistent, excellent quality and value to help 
     them express themselves and deliver smiles. 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was awarded 
     the 2014 Silver Stevie Award, recognizing the organization's outstanding 
     Customer Service and commitment to our 100% Smile Guarantee. 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM is rated "EXCELLENT" by StellaService. 
  

 
 
 
679; Maintain and enhance our Financial Strength and Flexibility - by seeking 
     ways to reduce our operating costs while strengthening our balance sheet 
     and adding flexibility to our capital structure. During fiscal 2015, the 
     Company completed the purchase of Harry & David and in order to finance 
     the acquisition entered into a credit agreement consisting of a term-loan 
     and a new revolving credit facility, assuring capital availability and 
     future flexibility. 
  

 
 
 
679; Continue to Innovate and Invest for the Future - by investing in 
     technology and new growth opportunities 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was included in 
     Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading 
     mobile commerce sites. Additionally, the Company was included in Internet 
     Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM received a Gold Award for Best User Experience on a 
     Mobile Optimized Site for the 2013 Horizon Interactive Awards. In 2015, 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in 
     New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource 
     Management (NYS-SHRM), demonstrating its investment in its employees. 
  

 
Faced with a still challenging economic climate, these strategic investments, 
coupled with improved manufacturing and labor efficiency plans and more 
targeted and efficient advertising spend, should not only generate revenue 
growth and consumer loyalty but position the Company to achieve its strategic, 
financial and operational objectives in the coming year, which in turn will 
build shareholder value. 
 
Business Segments 
 
The Company operates in the following three business segments: Consumer Floral, 
Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets, and BloomNet Wire Service. The Consumer Floral 
segment includes the operations of the Company's flagship brand, 
1-800-Flowers.com, iFlorist and Flowerama, while the Gourmet Food and Gift 
Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry & David, Fannie May 
Confections Brands, Cheryl's (which includes Mrs. Beasley's), The Popcorn 
Factory, Stockyards.com, DesignPac and 1-800-Baskets. The BloomNet Wire Service 
segment includes the operations of BloomNet and Napco. 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
Winetasting Network business on December 31, 2013. The Company has classified 
the results of the e-commerce and procurement business of The Winetasting 
Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
 
  6 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's Products and Service Offerings 
 
The Company offers a wide range of products including fresh-cut flowers, floral 
and fruit arrangements and plants, gifts, popcorn, gourmet foods and gift 
baskets, cookies, chocolates, candy, wine, and gift-quality fruit. In order to 
maximize sales opportunities, products are not exclusive to certain brands, and 
may be sold across business categories. The Company's differentiated and 
value-added product offerings create the opportunity to have a relationship 
with customers who purchase items not only for gift-giving occasions but also 
for everyday consumption. The Company's merchandising team works closely with 
manufacturers and suppliers to select and design its floral, gourmet foods and 
gift baskets, as well as other gift-related products that accommodate our 
customers' needs to celebrate a special occasion or convey a sentiment. As part 
of this continuing effort, the Company intends to continue to develop 
differentiated products and signature collections that customers have embraced 
and come to expect, while eliminating marginal performers from its product 
offerings. 
 
During fiscal 2015 and 2014, approximately 1% and 2%, respectively, of 
consolidated net revenue came from international sources, whereas in fiscal 
2013 virtually all of the Company's revenues had been derived from domestic 
sources. 
 
Flowers and Plants. The Company offers fresh-cut flowers and floral and fruit 
arrangements for all occasions and holidays, available for same-day delivery. 
The Company provides its customers with a choice of florist designed products, 
including traditional floral and gift offerings and the Company's line of fruit 
arrangements under the Fruit Bouquets(R) brand (www.fruitbouquets.com), and 
flowers delivered fresh from the farm. The Company also offers a wide variety 
of popular plants to brighten the home and/or office, and accent gardens and 
landscapes. 
 
Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets. The Company manufactures premium cookies and 
baked gift items under the Cheryl's and Mrs. Beasley's brands, which are 
delivered in beautiful and innovative gift baskets and containers, providing 
customers with a variety of assortments to choose from. The Popcorn Factory 
brand pops premium popcorn and specialty snack products, while Fannie May 
Confections Brands manufactures premium chocolate and candy under the Fannie 
May, Fannie Farmer, Harry London and various private label brand names. The 
1-800-BASKETS.COM(R) brand features a collection of gourmet gift baskets and 
related products confected by DesignPac, as well as through third parties. 
Harry & David is a vertically integrated multi-channel specialty retailer and 
producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, food products and gifts 
marketed under the Harry & David(R), Wolferman's(R) and Cushman's(R) and 
MooseMunch(R) brands. The Company also licenses the Stockyards name through 
which it sells premium meats. Many of the Company's gourmet products are 
packaged in seasonal, occasion specific or decorative tins, fitting the 
"giftable" requirement of individual customers, while also adding the 
capability to customize the tins with corporate logos and other personalized 
features for the Company's corporate customers' gifting needs. 
 
BloomNet Products and Services. The Company's BloomNet business provides its 
members with products and services, including: (i) clearinghouse services, 
consisting of the settlement of orders between sending florists (including the 
1-800-Flowers.com brand) and receiving florists, (ii) advertising, in the form 
of member directories, including the industry's first on-line directory, (iii) 
communication services, by which BloomNet florists are able to send and receive 
orders and communicate between members, using Bloomlink(R), the Company's 
proprietary electronic communication system, (iv) other services including web 
hosting, marketing services and point of sale, and (v) wholesale products, 
which consist of branded and non-branded floral supplies, enabling member 
florists to reduce their costs through 1-800-Flowers purchasing leverage, while 
also ensuring that member florists will be able to fulfill 1-800-Flowers.com 
brand orders based on recipe specifications. While maintaining industry-high 
quality standards for its 1-800-Flowers.com brand customers, the Company offers 
florists a compelling value proposition, offering products and services that 
its florists need to grow their business and to enhance profitability. 
 
Marketing and Promotion 
 
The Company's marketing and promotional strategy is designed to strengthen the 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands, increase customer acquisition, build customer 
loyalty, and encourage repeat purchases. The Company's goal is to create a 
celebratory ecosystem that makes its brands synonymous with thoughtful gifting 
and to help our customers "send smiles" everyday. To do this, the Company 
intends to invest in its brands and acquire new customers through the use of 
selective on and off-line media, direct marketing, public relations and 
strategic Internet relationships, while cost-effectively capitalizing on the 
Company's large and loyal customer base. 
 
  7 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's strong appeal and brand recognition provide it with significant 
marketing opportunities. For example, the Company was featured in an episode of 
the CBS TV hit reality show Undercover Boss, providing a great opportunity for 
all of its brands to receive broad national exposure in front of an estimated 
15 million viewers, while also being included in the Walk of Shame movie. Our 
"Imagine the Smiles" program recognizes and celebrates members of our local 
communities, who are deserving of a smile. And, in what can be considered one 
of the best compliments a brand can receive, 1-800-Flowers.com's place in 
America's cultural fabric was confirmed when the brand was featured in a great 
spoof on Mother's Day family relations during a Saturday Night Live skit. 
 
Enhance its Customer Relationships. The Company intends to deepen its 
relationship with its customers and be their trusted resource to fulfill their 
need for quality, tasteful gifts. It plans to encourage more frequent and 
extensive use of its multi-brand portal, by continuing to provide 
product-related content and interactive features which will enable the Company 
to reach its customers during non-holiday periods, thereby increasing everyday 
purchases for birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, and sympathy. Examples of 
these efforts include the Company's active social media presence, and 
Celebration's series of books which enhance engagement through customer 
generated content. In addition, through customer panel research, the Company 
has introduced a number of signature products designed to increase everyday 
purchases, including the "a DOG-ableT82;" collection, a variety of dog-shaped 
floral arrangements, Cookie Flower arrangements, Cookie Cards, Chocolate Dipped 
strawberries in Fannie May exclusive Flavors, and with the acquisition of Harry 
& David, it's signature Comice pears and MooseMunch popcorn, all of which build 
upon the Company's efforts to offer unique products, a strategy which stems 
back to the Company's earliest signature collections such as the still popular 
"Birthday Cake" and "Happy Hour" collections. 
 
In order to attract new customers and to increase purchase frequency and 
average order value of existing customers, the Company markets and promotes its 
brands and products as follows: 
 
Strategic Online Relationships. The Company promotes its products through 
strategic relationships with leading Internet portals, search engines, and 
mobile and online networks. The Company's online relationships include, among 
others, social media sites such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and Pinterest, 
as well as Google, AOL, Yahoo!, and MSN. 
 
Affiliate and Co-Marketing Promotions. In addition to securing alliances with 
frequently visited websites, the Company has developed an affiliate network 
that includes thousands of websites operated by third parties. Affiliate 
participation may be terminated by them or by the Company at any time. These 
websites earn commissions on purchases made by customers referred from their 
sites to the Company's website. In order to expand the reach of its marketing 
programs and stretch its marketing dollars, the Company has established a 
number of co-marketing relationships and promotions to advertise its products. 
 
E-mails. The Company is able to capitalize on its customer database by 
utilizing cost-effective, targeted e-mails to notify customers of product 
promotions, remind them of upcoming gifting occasions and convey other 
marketing messages. 
 
Direct Mail and Catalogs. The Company uses its direct mail promotions and 
catalogs to increase the number of new customers and to increase purchase 
frequency of its existing customers. Through the use of catalogs, the Company 
can utilize its extensive customer database to effectively cross-promote its 
products. In addition to providing a direct sale mechanism, these catalogs 
drive on-line sales and will attract additional customers to the Company's 
websites. 
 
Off-line Media. The Company utilizes off-line media, including television, 
radio and print to market its brands and products. Off-line media allows the 
Company to reach a large number of customers and to target particular market 
segments. 
 
  8 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's Websites 
 
The Company offers floral, fruit, plant, gift baskets, gourmet foods, chocolate 
and candies, plush and specialty gift products through its multi-branded 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM (www.1800flowers.com) website. The Company's customers can 
access all of its family of brands through "tabs" on this URL, with full 
multi-brand functionality which was launched during fiscal 2015. Customers can 
come to the Company's websites directly or be linked by one of the Company's 
portal providers, search engine, or affiliate relationships. These include 
Google, Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL, as well as thousands of online affiliate 
program members and social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. The 
Company also offers premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May Fine 
Chocolates (www.fanniemay.com and www.harrylondon.com), premium popcorn and 
specialty food products through The Popcorn Factory 
(www.thepopcornfactory.com), exceptional baked cookies and baked gifts from 
Cheryl's (www.cheryls.com), gift-quality fruit from Harry & David 
(harryanddavid.com), which can be accessed directly, or through the Company's 
multi-branded website. A majority of the Company's online revenues are derived 
from traffic coming directly to one of the Company's Universal Resource 
Locators ("URL's"). 
 
The Company's websites allow customers to easily browse and purchase its 
products, promote brand loyalty and encourage repeat purchases by providing an 
inviting customer experience. The Company's websites offer customers detailed 
product information, complete with photographs, personalized shopping services, 
including search and order tracking, contests, gift-giving suggestions and 
reminder programs, party tips and planning, and information about special 
events and offers. The Company has designed its desktop and mobile websites to 
be fast, secure and easy to use and allows customers to order products with 
minimal effort. 
 
Technology Infrastructure 
 
The Company believes it has been and continues to be a leader in implementing 
new technologies to give its customers the best possible shopping experience, 
whether online or over the telephone. Through the use of customized software 
applications, the Company is able to retrieve, sort and analyze customer 
information to enable it to better serve its customers and target its product 
offerings. The Company's online and telephonic orders are fed directly from the 
Company's secure websites, or with the assistance of a gift advisor, into a 
transaction processing system which captures the required customer and 
recipient information. The system then routes the order to the appropriate 
Company distribution center or, for florist fulfilled or drop-shipped items, 
selects a florist or other vendor to fulfill the customer's order and 
electronically transmits the necessary information using BloomLink(R), the 
Company's proprietary communication system, assuring timely delivery. In 
addition, the Company's gift advisors have electronic access to this system, 
enabling them to assist in order fulfillment and subsequently track other 
customer and/or order information. 
 
The Company's technology infrastructure, primarily consisting of the Company's 
websites, transaction processing, manufacturing and warehouse management, 
customer databases and telecommunications systems, is built and maintained for 
reliability, security, scalability and flexibility. To minimize the risk of 
service interruptions from unexpected component or telecommunications failure, 
maintenance and upgrades, the Company has built full back-up and system 
redundancies into those components of its systems that have been identified as 
critical. 
 
Fulfillment and Manufacturing Operations 
 
The Company's customers primarily place their orders either online or over the 
telephone. The Company's development of a hybrid fulfillment system, which 
enables the Company to offer same-day, next-day and any-day delivery, combines 
the use of BloomNet (comprised of independent florists operating retail flower 
shops and franchise florist shops), with the Company-owned distribution centers 
and brand-name vendors who ship directly to the Company's customers. While 
providing a significant competitive advantage in terms of delivery options, the 
Company's fulfillment system also has the added benefit of reducing the 
Company's capital investments in inventory and infrastructure. All of the 
Company's products are backed by a 100% satisfaction guarantee, and the 
Company's business is not dependent on any single third-party supplier. 
 
To ensure reliable and efficient communication of online and telephonic orders 
to its BloomNet members and third party gift vendors, the Company developed 
BloomLink(R), a proprietary and secure internet-based communications system 
which is available to all BloomNet members and third-party gift vendors. The 
Company also has the ability to arrange for international delivery of floral 
products through independent wire services and through iFlorist. 
 
  9 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Fulfillment and manufacturing of products is as follows: 
 
Flowers and Plants. A majority of the Company's floral orders are fulfilled by 
one of the Company's BloomNet members, allowing the Company to deliver its 
floral and fruit bouquet products on a same-day or next-day basis to ensure 
freshness and to meet its customers' need for immediate gifting. In addition, 
the Company is better positioned to ensure consistent product quality and 
presentation and offer a greater variety of arrangements, which creates a 
better experience for its customers and gift recipients. The Company selects 
retail florists for BloomNet based upon the florist's design staff, facilities, 
quality of floral processing, and delivery capabilities and allocates orders to 
members within a geographical area based on historical performance of the 
florist in fulfilling orders, and the number of BloomNet florists currently 
serving the area. The Company regularly monitors BloomNet florists' performance 
and adherence to the Company's quality standards to ensure proper fulfillment. 
 
The Company's relationships with its BloomNet members are non-exclusive. Many 
florists, including many BloomNet florists, also are members of other floral 
fulfillment organizations. The BloomNet agreements generally are cancelable by 
either party with ten days notification and do not guarantee any orders, dollar 
amounts or exclusive territories from the Company to the florist. In certain 
instances, the Company is required to fulfill orders through non-BloomNet 
members, and transmits these orders to the fulfilling florist using the 
communication system of an independent wire service or via telephone. 
 
In addition to its florist designed product, the Company offers its customers 
an alternative to florist designed products through its direct ship products 
fresh from the farm. 
 
As of June 28, 2015, the Company operates one floral retail store in New York, 
and 8 floral retail stores in the mid-west. In addition, the Company has 187 
floral franchised stores, located within the United States. 
 
Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets. In order to achieve improved margins, better 
control quality and to offer premium branded signature products in the Gourmet 
Food and Gift Baskets product category, the Company has acquired several 
gourmet food retailers with manufacturing operations, as well as one vertically 
integrated retailer (Harry & David). The Company's premium chocolates are 
manufactured and distributed from its 189,000 square foot production facility 
in Akron, Ohio, and the Company's cookie and baked gifts are fulfilled from its 
86,000 square foot baking facility in Westerville, Ohio, and from its 176,000 
square foot freezer and distribution center in Obetz, Ohio, while its premium 
popcorn and related snack products are shipped from the Company's 148,000 
square foot manufacturing and distribution center located in Lake Forest, 
Illinois. Harry & David products are grown, manufactured and distributed 
primarily from its 1,112,000 square foot facilities in Medford, Oregon, 
supplemented by a 331,000 square foot distribution center in Hebron, Ohio. Gift 
basket confection and fulfillment for both wholesale and 1-800-Baskets.com is 
handled by DesignPac, through its 249,000 square foot distribution center 
located in Melrose Park, Illinois. As of June 28, 2015, the Company operates 83 
Fannie May/Harry London, 9 Cheryl's and 46 Harry & David retail stores. In 
addition, Fannie May has 2 franchised locations. (In June 2014, the Company 
terminated its franchise agreement with GB Chocolates and acquired 16 stores GB 
had been operating under the agreement. As such, in fiscal 2015, retail store 
sales growth replaced franchise revenues). 
 
Seasonality 
 
The Company's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to 
the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into 
non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David on September 
30, 2014, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within 
the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the 
Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the 
number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's 
Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the 
Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first 
quarter. The Easter Holiday, which was on April 20th in fiscal 2014, fell on 
April 5th in fiscal 2015. As a result of the timing of Easter, during fiscal 
2015, a portion of revenue and EBITDA associated with the Easter Holiday 
shifted into the Company's fiscal third quarter, from its fiscal fourth quarter 
of fiscal 2014. There will be a further shift of revenue and EBITDA as Easter 
falls on March 27th in fiscal 2016. 
 
In preparation for the Company's second quarter holiday season, the Company 
significantly increases its inventories, and therefore, corresponding cash 
requirements, which traditionally have been financed by cash flows from 
operations and bank lines of credit, which are highest during the latter part 
of the Company's fiscal first quarter, peaking within its second fiscal 
quarter. The Company has historically repaid all revolving bank lines of credit 
with cash generated from operations, prior to the end of the Company's fiscal 
second quarter. 
 
  10 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Competition 
 
The growing popularity and convenience of e-commerce has continued to give rise 
to established businesses on the Internet. In addition to selling their 
products over the Internet, many of these retailers sell their products through 
a combination of channels by maintaining a website, a toll-free phone number 
and physical locations. Additionally, several of these merchants offer an 
expanding variety of products and some are attracting an increasing number of 
customers. Certain mass merchants have expanded their offerings to include 
competing products and may continue to do so in the future. These mass 
merchants, as well as other potential competitors, may be able to: 
 
 
 
679; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; 
  

 
 
 
679; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and 
  

 
 
 
679; make more attractive offers to potential employees, distributors and retailers. 
  

 
In addition, the Company faces intense competition in each of its individual 
product categories. In the floral industry, there are various providers of 
floral products, none of which is dominant in the industry. The Company's 
competitors include: 
 
 
 
679; retail floral shops, some of which maintain toll-free telephone numbers and websites; 
  

 
 
 
679; online floral retailers, as well as retailers offering substitute gift products; 
  

 
 
 
679; catalog companies that offer floral products; 
  

 
 
 
679; floral telemarketers and wire services; and 
  

 
 
 
679; supermarkets, mass merchants and specialty retailers with floral departments. 
  

 
Similarly, the plant, gift basket and gourmet foods categories are highly 
competitive. Each of these categories encompasses a wide range of products, is 
highly fragmented and is served by a large number of companies, none of which 
is dominant. Products in these categories may be purchased from a number of 
outlets, including mass merchants, telemarketers, retail specialty shops, 
online retailers and mail-order catalogs. 
 
The Company believes the strength of its brands, product selection, customer 
relationships, technology infrastructure and fulfillment capabilities position 
it to compete effectively against its current and potential competitors in each 
of its product categories. However, increased competition could result in: 
 
 
 
679; price reductions, decreased revenues and lower profit margins; 
  

 
 
 
679; loss of market share; and 
  

 
 
 
679; increased marketing expenditures. 
  

 
These and other competitive factors may adversely impact the Company's business 
and results of operations. 
 
Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties 
 
The Internet continues to evolve and there are laws and regulations directly 
applicable to e-commerce. Legislatures are also considering an increasing 
number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet, including laws and 
regulations addressing: 
 
 
 
679; user privacy; 
  

 
 
 
679; pricing; 
  

 
 
 
679; content; 
  

 
 
 
679; connectivity; 
  

 
 
 
679; intellectual property; 
  

 
 
 
679; distribution; 
  

 
 
 
679; taxation; 
  

 
 
 
679; liabilities; 
  

 
 
 
679; antitrust; and 
  

 
 
 
679; characteristics and quality of products and services. 
  

 
  11 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Further, the growth and development of the market for online services may 
prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional 
burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of any 
additional laws or regulations may impair the growth of the Internet or 
commercial online services. This could decrease the demand for the Company's 
services and increase its cost of doing business. Moreover, the applicability 
to the Internet of existing laws regarding issues like property ownership, 
taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain. Any new legislation or 
regulation that has an adverse impact on the Internet or the application of 
existing laws and regulations to the Internet could have a material adverse 
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of 
operations. 
 
States or foreign countries might attempt to regulate the Company's business or 
levy additional sales or other taxes relating to its activities. Because the 
Company's products and services are available over the Internet anywhere in the 
world, multiple jurisdictions may claim that the Company is required to do 
business as a foreign corporation in one or more of those jurisdictions. 
Failure to qualify as a foreign corporation in a jurisdiction where the Company 
is required to do so could subject it to taxes and penalties. States or foreign 
governments may charge the Company with violations of local laws. 
 
Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 
 
The Company regards its service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names 
and similar intellectual property as critical to its success. The Company has 
applied for or received trademark and/or service mark registration for, among 
others, "1-800-FLOWERS.COM", "1-800-FLOWERS", "1-800-Baskets", 
"GreatFoods.com", "The Popcorn Factory", "TheGift.com", "Cheryl's", "Mrs. 
Beasley's", "Celebrations", "Flowerama", "DesignPac", "Napco", "Fannie May", 
"Harry London", "Harry & David", "Wolferman's", "MooseMunch" and "Cushman's". 
The Company also has rights to numerous domain names, including 
www.1800flowers.com, www.800flowers.com, www.1800baskets.com, www.flowers.com, 
www.greatfoods.com, www.stockyards.com, www.cheryls.com, www.fanniemay.com, 
www.harrylondon.com, www.celebrations.com, www.flowerama.com, 
www.designpac.com, www.mybloomnet.net, www.napcoimports.com, 
www.harryanddavid.com, www.wolfermans.com, www.cushmans.com and 
www.iflorist.co.uk. In addition, the Company owns a number of international 
trademarks and/or service marks. The Company has also developed transaction 
processing and operating systems as well as marketing data, and customer and 
recipient information databases. 
 
The Company relies on trademark, unfair competition and copyright law, trade 
secret protection and contracts such as confidentiality and license agreements 
with its employees, customers, vendors and others to protect its proprietary 
rights. Despite the Company's precautions, it may be possible for competitors 
to obtain and/or use the Company's proprietary information without 
authorization or to develop technologies similar to the Company's and 
independently create a similarly functioning infrastructure. Furthermore, the 
protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain 
and still evolving. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect 
proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The 
Company's means of protecting its proprietary rights in the United States or 
abroad may not be adequate. 
 
The Company intends to continue to license technology from third parties, 
including Oracle, SAS, Microsoft, IBM, Verizon and AT&T, for its communications 
technology and the software that underlies its business systems. The market is 
evolving and the Company may need to license additional technologies to remain 
competitive. The Company may not be able to license these technologies on 
commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
 
Third parties have in the past infringed or misappropriated the Company's 
intellectual property or similar proprietary rights. The Company believes 
infringements and misappropriations will continue to occur in the future. The 
Company intends to police against infringement and misappropriation. However, 
the Company cannot guarantee it will be able to enforce its rights and enjoin 
the alleged infringers from their use of confusingly similar trademarks, 
service marks, telephone numbers and domain names. 
 
In addition, third parties may assert infringement claims against the Company. 
The Company cannot be certain that its technologies or its products and 
services do not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other 
proprietary rights held by third parties. The Company may be subject to legal 
proceedings and claims from time to time relating to its intellectual property 
and the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of its business. 
Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could 
divert management resources away from running the Company's business. 
 
Employees 
 
As of June 28, 2015, the Company had a total of 4,524 full and part-time 
employees. During peak periods, the Company substantially increases the number 
of customer service, manufacturing and retail and fulfillment personnel. The 
Company's personnel are not represented under collective bargaining agreements 
and the Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. 
 
  12 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
 
Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
 
Our disclosures and analysis in this Form 10-K contain some forward-looking 
statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and 
assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in 
other statements we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking 
statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of 
future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We 
have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such 
as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" 
and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating 
or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to 
future actions; the effectiveness of our marketing programs; the performance of 
our existing products and services; our ability to attract and retain customers 
and expand our customer base; our ability to enter into or renew online 
marketing agreements; our ability to respond to competitive pressures; 
expenses, including shipping costs and the costs of marketing our current and 
future products and services; the outcome of contingencies, including legal 
proceedings in the normal course of business; and our ability to integrate 
acquisitions. 
 
We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, 
although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. 
Achievement of future results is subject to risk, uncertainties and potentially 
inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties 
materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results 
could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or 
projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking 
statements. 
 
We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are 
advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related 
subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note we provide the 
following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate 
assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or 
in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially 
from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as 
permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
 
The financial and credit markets have been and continue to experience 
unprecedented disruption, which may have an adverse effect on our customers' 
spending patterns and in turn our business, financial condition and results of 
operations. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are 
sensitive to the general economic climate, the consumer's level of disposable 
income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. The ongoing global 
financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has 
resulted in a low level of consumer confidence. During the past few years, the 
volatility and disruption in the financial markets have reached unprecedented 
levels. This financial crisis has impacted and may continue to impact our 
business in a number of ways. Included among these current and potential future 
negative impacts are reduced demand and lower prices for our products and 
services. We are currently operating in challenging macroeconomic conditions, 
which may continue during fiscal 2016. 
 
The Company's operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause 
financial results to be below expectations. The Company's operating results may 
fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting the 
Company's operating expenses for the foreseeable future, the Company makes 
assumptions regarding revenue trends; however, some of the Company's operating 
expenses are fixed in the short term. Sales of the Company's products are 
seasonal, concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter, due to the Thanksgiving 
and Christmas-time holidays, and the second calendar quarter, due to Mother's 
Day and Administrative Professionals' Week. In anticipation of increased sales 
activity during these periods, the Company hires a significant number of 
temporary employees to supplement its permanent staff and the Company increases 
its inventory levels. If revenues during these periods do not meet the 
Company's expectations, it may not generate sufficient revenue to offset these 
increased costs and its operating results may suffer. 
 
  13 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's quarterly operating results may significantly fluctuate and you 
should not rely on them as an indication of its future results. The Company's 
future revenues and results of operations may significantly fluctuate due to a 
combination of factors, many of which are outside of management's control. The 
most important of these factors include: 
 
 
 
679; seasonality; 
  

 
 
 
679; the retail economy; 
  

 
 
 
679; the timing and effectiveness of marketing programs; 
  

 
 
 
679; the timing of the introduction of new products and services; 
  

 
 
 
679; the Company's ability to find and maintain reliable sources for certain of its products; 
  

 
 
 
679; the timing and effectiveness of capital expenditures; 
  

 
 
 
679; the Company's ability to enter into or renew online marketing agreements; and 
  

 
 
 
679; competition. 
  

 
The Company may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset 
any unexpected revenue shortfall. If the Company has a shortfall in revenue 
without a corresponding reduction to its expenses, operating results may 
suffer. The Company's operating results for any particular quarter may not be 
indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on 
quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of the 
Company's future performance. It is possible that results of operations may be 
below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could 
cause the trading price of the Company's Class A common stock to fall. 
 
Consumer spending on flowers, gifts and other products sold by the Company may 
vary with general economic conditions. If general economic conditions 
deteriorate and the Company's customers have less disposable income, consumers 
may spend less on its products and its quarterly operating results may suffer. 
 
During peak periods, the Company utilizes temporary employees and outsourced 
staff, who may not be as well-trained or committed to its customers as its 
permanent employees, and if they fail to provide the Company's customers with 
high quality customer service the customers may not return, which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results 
of operations and cash flows. The Company depends on its customer service 
department to respond to its customers should they have questions or problems 
with their orders. During peak periods, the Company relies on its permanent 
employees, as well as temporary employees and outsourced staff to respond to 
customer inquiries. These temporary employees and outsourced staff may not have 
the same level of commitment to the Company's customers or be as well trained 
as its permanent employees. If the Company's customers are dissatisfied with 
the quality of the customer service they receive, they may not shop with the 
Company again, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, 
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
 
If the Company's customers do not find its expanded product lines appealing, 
revenues may not grow and net income may decrease. The Company's business 
historically has focused on offering floral and floral-related gift products. 
Although the Company has been successful in its expanded product lines 
including fruit bouquets, plants, gift baskets, popcorn, gourmet food and 
unique, specialty gifts and gift-quality fruit, it expects to continue to incur 
significant costs in marketing these products. If the Company's customers do 
not continue to find its product lines appealing, the Company may not generate 
sufficient revenue to offset its related costs and its results of operations 
may be negatively impacted. 
 
If the Company fails to develop and maintain its brands, it may not increase or 
maintain its customer base or its revenues. The Company must continue to 
develop and maintain the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands to expand its customer base 
and its revenues. In addition, the Company has introduced and acquired other 
brands in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. The Company 
believes that the importance of brand recognition will increase as it expands 
its product offerings. Many of the Company's customers may not be aware of the 
Company's non-floral products. If the Company fails to advertise and market its 
products effectively, it may not succeed in establishing its brands and may 
lose customers leading to a reduction of revenues. 
 
The Company's success in promoting and enhancing the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands 
will also depend on its success in providing its customers high-quality 
products and a high level of customer service. If the Company's customers do 
not perceive its products and services to be of high quality, the value of the 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands would be diminished and the Company may lose customers 
and its revenues may decline. 
 
  14 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
A failure to establish and maintain strategic online relationships that 
generate a significant amount of traffic could limit the growth of the 
Company's business. Although the Company expects a significant portion of its 
online customers will continue to come directly to its website, it will also 
rely on third party websites, search engines and affiliates with which the 
Company has strategic relationships for traffic. If these third-parties do not 
attract a significant number of visitors, the Company may not receive a 
significant number of online customers from these relationships and its 
revenues from these relationships may decrease or remain flat. There continues 
to be strong competition to establish or maintain relationships with leading 
Internet companies, and the Company may not successfully enter into additional 
relationships, or renew existing ones beyond their current terms. The Company 
may also be required to pay significant fees to maintain and expand existing 
relationships. The Company's online revenues may suffer if it does not enter 
into new relationships or maintain existing relationships or if these 
relationships do not result in traffic sufficient to justify their costs. 
 
If local florists and other third-party vendors do not fulfill orders to the 
Company's customers' satisfaction, customers may not shop with the Company 
again. In many cases, floral orders placed by the Company's customers are 
fulfilled by local independent florists, a majority of which are members of 
BloomNet. The Company does not directly control any of these florists. In 
addition, many of the non-floral products sold by the Company are manufactured 
and delivered to its customers by independent third-party vendors. If customers 
are dissatisfied with the performance of the local florist or other third-party 
vendors, they may not utilize the Company's services when placing future orders 
and its revenues may decrease. 
 
If a florist discontinues its relationship with the Company, the Company's 
customers may experience delays in service or declines in quality and may not 
shop with the Company again. Many of the Company's arrangements with local 
florists for order fulfillment may be terminated by either party with 10 days 
notice. If a florist discontinues its relationship with the Company, the 
Company will be required to obtain a suitable replacement located in the same 
geographic area, which may cause delays in delivery or a decline in quality, 
leading to customer dissatisfaction and loss of customers. 
 
If a significant number of customers are not satisfied with their purchase, the 
Company will be required to incur substantial costs to issue refunds, credits 
or replacement products. The Company offers its customers a 100% satisfaction 
guarantee on its products. If customers are not satisfied with the products 
they receive, the Company will either replace the product for the customer or 
issue the customer a refund or credit. The Company's net income would decrease 
if a significant number of customers request replacement products, refunds or 
credits and the Company is unable to pass such costs onto the supplier. 
 
Increased shipping costs and labor stoppages may adversely affect sales of the 
Company's products. Many of the Company's products are delivered to customers 
either directly from the manufacturer or from the Company's fulfillment 
centers. The Company has established relationships with Federal Express, UPS 
and other common carriers for the delivery of these products. If these carriers 
were to increase the prices they charge to ship the Company's goods, and the 
Company passes these increases on to its customers, its customers might choose 
to buy comparable products locally to avoid shipping charges. In addition, 
these carriers or other parties involved (e.g. dock workers) may experience 
labor stoppages, which could impact the Company's ability to deliver products 
on a timely basis to our customers and adversely affect its customer 
relationships. 
 
If the Company fails to continuously improve its website, it may not attract or 
retain customers. If potential or existing customers do not find the Company's 
website a convenient place to shop, the Company may not attract or retain 
customers and its sales may suffer. To encourage the use of the Company's 
website, it must continuously improve its accessibility, content and ease of 
use. Customer traffic and the Company's business would be adversely affected if 
competitors' websites are perceived as easier to use or better able to satisfy 
customer needs. 
 
  15 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Competition in the floral, plant, gift basket, gourmet food, and specialty gift 
industries is intense and a failure to respond to competitive pressure could 
result in lost revenues. There are many companies that offer products in these 
categories. In the floral category, the Company's competitors include: 
 
 
 
679; retail floral shops, some of which maintain toll-free telephone numbers, and websites; 
  

 
 
 
679; online floral retailers; 
  

 
 
 
679; catalog companies that offer floral products; 
  

 
 
 
679; floral telemarketers and wire services; and 
  

 
 
 
679; supermarkets, mass merchants and specialty gift retailers with floral departments. 
  

 
Similarly, the plant, gift basket, gourmet food, cookie, candy, fruit and 
specialty gift categories are highly competitive. Each of these categories 
encompasses a wide range of products and is highly fragmented. Products in 
these categories may be purchased from a number of outlets, including mass 
merchants, retail shops, online retailers and mail-order catalogs. 
 
Competition is intense and the Company expects it to increase. Increased 
competition could result in: 
 
 
 
679; price reductions, decreased revenue and lower profit margins; 
  

 
 
 
679; loss of market share; and 
  

 
 
 
679; increased marketing expenditures. 
  

 
These and other competitive factors could materially and adversely affect the 
Company's results of operations. 
 
If the Company does not accurately predict customer demand for its products, it 
may lose customers or experience increased costs. In the past, the Company did 
not need to maintain a significant inventory of products. However, as the 
Company expands the volume of non-floral products offered to its customers, 
especially with the acquisition of Harry & David, the Company is required to 
increase inventory levels and the number of products maintained in its 
warehouses. If the Company overestimates customer demand for its products, 
excess inventory and outdated merchandise could accumulate, tying up working 
capital and potentially resulting in reduced warehouse capacity and inventory 
losses due to damage, theft and obsolescence. If the Company underestimates 
customer demand, it may disappoint customers who may turn to its competitors. 
Moreover, the strength of the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands could be diminished due 
to misjudgments in merchandise selection. 
 
If the supply of flowers for sale becomes limited, the price of flowers could 
rise or flowers may be unavailable and the Company's revenues and gross margins 
could decline. A variety of factors affect the supply of flowers in the United 
States and the price of the Company's floral products. If the supply of flowers 
available for sale is limited due to weather conditions, farm closures, 
economic conditions, or other factors, prices for flowers could rise and 
customer demand for the Company's floral products may be reduced, causing 
revenues and gross margins to decline. Alternatively, the Company may not be 
able to obtain high quality flowers in an amount sufficient to meet customer 
demand. Even if available, flowers from alternative sources may be of lesser 
quality and/or may be more expensive than those currently offered by the 
Company. 
 
Most of the flowers sold in the United States are grown by farmers located 
abroad, primarily in Colombia, Ecuador and Holland, and the Company expects 
that this will continue in the future. The availability and price of flowers 
could be affected by a number of factors affecting these regions, including: 
 
 
 
679; import duties and quotas; 
  

 
 
 
679; agricultural limitations and restrictions to manage pests and disease; 
  

 
 
 
679; changes in trading status; 
  

 
 
 
679; economic uncertainties and currency fluctuations; 
  

 
 
 
679; severe weather; 
  

 
 
 
679; work stoppages; 
  

 
 
 
679; foreign government regulations and political unrest; and 
  

 
 
 
679; trade restrictions, including United States retaliation against foreign trade practices. 
  

 
  16 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Our orchard production operations are subject to environmental laws and 
regulation and any failure to comply could result in significant fines or 
clean-up costs. We use herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides, some of which 
may be considered hazardous substances. Various federal, state, and local 
environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and 
farming operations and could make us liable for costs of removing or cleaning 
up hazardous substances on, under, or in property that we currently own or 
lease, that we previously owned or leased, or upon which we currently or 
previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities 
without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of 
hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances or the failure to 
properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to 
use, sell or collateralize certain real property and result in significant 
fines or clean-up costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. Future environmental laws could impact our 
farming operations or increase our cost of goods. 
 
Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions can affect fruit 
production. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts, 
wildfires, floods and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality 
and quantity of our fruit production in our Harry & David orchards, decreasing 
the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. Our 
producing orchards also require adequate water supplies. A substantial 
reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of crops, which 
could lead to a shortage of our product supply. 
 
The ripening of our fruits is subject to seasonal fluctuations which could 
negatively impact profitability. The ripening of our fruits in the Harry & 
David orchards can happen earlier than predicted due to warmer temperatures 
during the year. This would result in an oversupply of fruits which we might 
not be able to sell on a timely basis and could result in significant inventory 
write-offs. The ripening of the Company's fruits can also happen later than 
predicted due to colder temperatures during the year. This can cause a delay in 
product shipments and not being able to timely meet customer demand during the 
critical holiday season. Both of these scenarios could adversely affect our 
business, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
The Company's franchisees may damage its brands or increase its costs by 
failing to comply with its franchise agreements or its operating standards. The 
Company's franchise business is governed by its Uniform Franchise Disclosure 
Document, franchise agreements and applicable franchise law. If the Company's 
franchisees do not comply with its established operating standards or the terms 
of the franchise agreements, the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands may be damaged. The 
Company may incur significant additional costs, including time-consuming and 
expensive litigation, to enforce its rights under the franchise agreements. 
Additionally, the Company is the primary tenant on certain leases, which the 
franchisees sublease from the Company. If a franchisee fails to meet its 
obligations as subtenant, the Company could incur significant costs to avoid 
default under the primary lease. Furthermore, as a franchiser, the Company has 
obligations to its franchisees. Franchisees may challenge the performance of 
the Company's obligations under the franchise agreements and subject it to 
costs in defending these claims and, if the claims are successful, costs in 
connection with their compliance. 
 
If third parties acquire rights to use similar domain names or phone numbers or 
if the Company loses the right to use its phone numbers, its brands may be 
damaged and it may lose sales. The Company's Internet domain names are an 
important aspect of its brand recognition. The Company cannot practically 
acquire rights to all domain names similar to www.1800flowers.com, or its other 
brands, whether under existing top level domains or those issued in the future. 
If third parties obtain rights to similar domain names, these third parties may 
confuse the Company's customers and cause its customers to inadvertently place 
orders with these third parties, which could result in lost sales and could 
damage its brands. 
 
Likewise, the phone number that spells 1-800-FLOWERS is important to the 
Company's brand and its business. While the Company has obtained the right to 
use the phone numbers 1-800-FLOWERS, 1-888-FLOWERS and 1-877-FLOWERS, as well 
as common toll-free "FLOWERS" misdials, it may not be able to obtain rights to 
use the FLOWERS phone number as new toll-free prefixes are issued, or the 
rights to all similar and potentially confusing numbers. If third parties 
obtain the phone number which spells "FLOWERS" with a different prefix or a 
toll-free number similar to FLOWERS, these parties may also confuse the 
Company's customers and cause lost sales and potential damage to its brands. In 
addition, under applicable FCC rules, ownership rights to phone numbers cannot 
be acquired. Accordingly, the FCC may rescind the Company's right to use any of 
its phone numbers, including 1-800-FLOWERS (1-800-356-9377). 
 
  17 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Computer system disruption and cyber security threats, including a privacy or 
data security breach, could damage our relationships with our customers, harm 
our reputation, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business. We 
depend on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business, 
including corporate email communications to and from employees, customers and 
retail operations, the design, manufacture and distribution of our finished 
goods, digital marketing efforts, collection and retention of customer data, 
employee information, the processing of credit card transactions, online 
e-commerce activities and our interaction with the public in the social media 
space. The possibility of a cyber-attack on any one or all of these systems is 
always a serious threat and consumer awareness and sensitivity to privacy 
breaches and cyber security threats is at an all-time high. 
 
As part of our business model, we collect, retain, and transmit confidential 
information over public networks. In addition to our own databases, we use 
third party service providers to store, process and transmit this information 
on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to 
implement and use reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties 
and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in the future either 
at their location or within their systems. We have confidential security 
measures in place to protect both our physical facilities and digital systems 
from attacks. Despite these efforts, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random 
security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, 
programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. 
 
Given the robust nature of our e-commerce presence and digital strategy, it is 
imperative that we and our e-commerce partners maintain uninterrupted operation 
of our: (i) computer hardware, (ii) software systems, (iii) customer marketing 
databases, and (iv) ability to email our current and potential customers. Any 
material disruptions in our e-commerce presence or information technology 
systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. 
 
The Company's business could be injured by significant credit card, debit card 
and gift card fraud. Customers typically pay for their on-line or telephone 
orders with debit or credit cards as well as a portion of their orders using 
gift cards. The Company's revenues and gross margins could decrease if it 
experienced significant credit card, debit card and gift card fraud. Failure to 
adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card, debit card and gift card 
transactions could cause the Company to lose its ability to accept credit cards 
or debit cards as forms of payment and/or result in charge-backs of the 
fraudulently charged amounts and/or significantly decrease revenues. 
Furthermore, widespread credit card, debit card and gift card fraud may lessen 
the Company's customers' willingness to purchase products through the Company's 
websites or toll-free telephone numbers. For this reason, such failure could 
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, 
results of operations and cash flows. 
 
Unexpected system interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced 
revenues and harm to the Company's brand. In the past, particularly during peak 
holiday periods, the Company has experienced significant increases in traffic 
on its website and in its toll-free customer service centers. The Company's 
operations are dependent on its ability to maintain its computer and 
telecommunications systems in effective working order and to protect its 
systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, 
telecommunications failure or similar events. The Company's systems have in the 
past, and may in the future, experience: 
 
 
 
679; system interruptions; 
  

 
 
 
679; long response times; and 
  

 
 
 
679; degradation in service. 
  

 
The Company's business depends on customers making purchases on its systems. 
Its revenues may decrease and its reputation could be harmed if it experiences 
frequent or long system delays or interruptions or if a disruption occurs 
during a peak holiday season. 
 
If the Company's telecommunications providers do not adequately maintain the 
Company's telephone service, the Company may experience system failures and its 
revenues may decrease. The Company is dependent on telecommunication providers 
to provide telephone services to its customer service centers. Although the 
Company maintains redundant telecommunications systems, if these providers 
experience system failures or fail to adequately maintain the Company's 
systems, the Company may experience interruptions and its customers might not 
continue to utilize its services. If the Company loses its telephone service, 
it will be unable to generate revenue. The Company's future success depends 
upon these third-party relationships because it does not have the resources to 
maintain its telephone service without these or other third parties. Failure to 
maintain these relationships or replace them on financially attractive terms 
may disrupt the Company's operations or require it to incur significant 
unanticipated costs. 
 
  18 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company's operating results may suffer due to economic, political and 
social unrest or disturbances. Like other American businesses, the Company is 
unable to predict what long-term effect acts of terrorism, war, or similar 
unforeseen events may have on its business. The Company's results of operations 
and financial condition could be adversely impacted if such events cause an 
economic slowdown in the United States, or other negative effects that cannot 
now be anticipated. 
 
If the Company is unable to hire and retain key personnel, its business may 
suffer. The Company's success is dependent on its ability to hire, retain and 
motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, the Company's success 
depends on the continued efforts of its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
James F. McCann, and its President, Christopher G. McCann, as well as its 
senior management team which help manage its business. The loss of the services 
of any of the Company's executive management or key personnel or its inability 
to attract qualified additional personnel could cause its business to suffer 
and force it to expend time and resources in locating and training additional 
personnel. 
 
Many governmental regulations may impact the Internet, which could affect the 
Company's ability to conduct business. Any new law or regulation, or the 
application or interpretation of existing laws, may decrease the growth in the 
use of the Internet or the Company's website. The Company expects there will be 
an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet in the 
United States and throughout the world. These laws or regulations may relate to 
liability for information received from or transmitted over the Internet, 
online content regulation, user privacy, taxation and quality of products and 
services sold over the Internet. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of 
existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, 
copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal 
privacy and other issues is uncertain and developing. This could decrease the 
demand for the Company's products, increase its costs or otherwise adversely 
affect its business. 
 
Regulations imposed by the Federal Trade Commission may adversely affect the 
growth of the Company's Internet business or its marketing efforts. The Federal 
Trade Commission has proposed regulations regarding the collection and use of 
personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing 
websites, with particular emphasis on access by minors. These regulations may 
include requirements that the Company establish procedures to disclose and 
notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for 
collection and use of information and provide users with the ability to access, 
correct and delete personal information stored by the Company. These 
regulations may also include enforcement and redress provisions. Moreover, even 
in the absence of those regulations, the Federal Trade Commission has begun 
investigations into the privacy practices of other companies that collect 
information on the Internet. One investigation resulted in a consent decree 
under which an Internet company agreed to establish programs to implement the 
principles noted above. The Company may become a party to a similar 
investigation, or the Federal Trade Commission's regulatory and enforcement 
efforts, or those of other governmental bodies, may adversely affect its 
ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could 
adversely affect its marketing efforts. 
 
Unauthorized use of the Company's intellectual property by third parties may 
damage its brands. Unauthorized use of the Company's intellectual property by 
third parties may damage its brands and its reputation and may likely result in 
a loss of customers. It may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the 
Company's intellectual property without authorization. Third parties have in 
the past infringed or misappropriated the Company's intellectual property or 
similar proprietary rights. The Company believes infringements and 
misappropriations will continue to occur in the future. Furthermore, the 
validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in 
Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. The Company has 
been unable to register certain of its intellectual property in some foreign 
countries and furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries are uncertain or 
do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws 
of the United States. 
 
Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive 
and, if the Company is not successful, could disrupt its ability to conduct 
business. The Company has been unable to register certain of its intellectual 
properties in some foreign countries, including, "1-800-Flowers.com", 
"1-800-Flowers" and "800-Flowers". The Company cannot be certain that the 
products it sells, or services it offers, do not or will not infringe valid 
patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by 
third parties. The Company may be a party to legal proceedings and claims 
relating to the intellectual property of others from time to time in the 
ordinary course of its business. The Company may incur substantial expense in 
defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their 
merit. Successful infringement claims against the Company may result in 
substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt its ability to conduct 
business. 
 
  19 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company does not collect sales or consumption taxes in some jurisdictions. 
In addition to the Company's retail store operations, the Company collects 
sales or other similar taxes in states where the Company's ecommerce channel 
has applicable nexus. Our customer service and fulfillment networks, and any 
further expansion of those networks, along with other aspects of our evolving 
business, may result in additional sales and use tax obligations. Currently, 
U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect 
state and local sales taxes with respect to remote sales. However, an 
increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to 
impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf. 
A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or 
other taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, 
including for past sales, penalties and interest, as well as decrease our 
ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. 
 
A failure to integrate our acquisitions may cause the results of the acquired 
company, as well as the results of the Company to suffer.  The Company has 
opportunistically acquired a number of companies over the past several years. 
Additionally the Company may look to acquire additional companies in the 
future. As part of the acquisition process, the Company embarks upon a project 
management effort to integrate the acquisition onto our information technology 
systems and management processes.  If we are unsuccessful in integrating our 
acquisitions, the results of our acquisitions may suffer, management may have 
to divert valuable resources to oversee and manage the acquisitions, the 
Company may have to expend additional investments in the acquired company to 
upgrade personnel and/or information technology systems and the results of the 
Company may suffer. 
 
A failure to dispose of assets or businesses in a timely manner may cause the 
results of the Company to suffer. The Company continues to evaluate the 
potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help it meet 
its objectives. When the Company decides to sell assets or a business, it may 
encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on 
acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of 
its strategic objectives. Alternatively, the Company may dispose of a business 
at a price or on terms that are less than it had anticipated. After reaching an 
agreement with a buyer or seller for the disposition of a business, the Company 
is subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may prevent the 
Company from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve 
continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through 
continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial 
obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses 
or other conditions outside the Company's control could affect its future 
financial results. 
 
Product liability claims may subject the Company to increased costs. Several of 
the products the Company sells, including perishable food and alcoholic 
beverage products may expose it to product liability claims in the event that 
the use or consumption of these products results in personal injury or property 
damage. Although the Company has not experienced any material losses due to 
product liability claims to date, it may be a party to product liability claims 
in the future and incur significant costs in their defense. Product liability 
claims often create negative publicity, which could materially damage the 
Company's reputation and its brands. Although the Company maintains insurance 
against product liability claims, its coverage may be inadequate to cover any 
liabilities it may incur. 
 
The price at which the Company's Class A common stock will trade may be highly 
volatile and may fluctuate substantially. The stock market has from time to 
time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market 
prices of securities, particularly securities of companies with Internet 
operations. As a result, investors may experience a material decline in the 
market price of the Company's Class A common stock, regardless of the Company's 
operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the 
market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action 
litigation has often been brought against that company. The Company may become 
involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is 
often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources and could have 
a material adverse effect on the Company's business and its results of 
operations. 
 
  20 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Additional Information 
 
The Company's internet address is www.1800flowers.com. We make available, 
through the investor relations tab located on our website at 
www.1800flowersinc.com, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those 
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are 
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. All such filings on our investor relations website are available 
free of charge. (The information posted on the Company's website is not 
incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) 
 
A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon 
written request to: Investor Relations, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., One Old 
Country Road, Suite 500, Carle Place, NY 11514. In addition, the SEC maintains 
a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information 
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically 
with the SEC. 
 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
 
We have received no written comments regarding our current or periodic reports 
from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end 
of our fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 that remain unresolved. 
 
  21 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Item 2.     PROPERTIES 
 
The table below lists the Company's properties at June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
Location           Type           Principal Use          Square       Ownership 
 
                                                         Footage 
Jacksonville, FL   Office and     Distribution and            180,000 owned 
                   warehouse      administrative 
Miami, FL          Office         Administrative                  900 leased 
Lake Forest, IL    Office, plant  Manufacturing,              148,000 leased 
                   and warehouse  distribution and 
                                  administrative 
Melrose Park, IL   Office and     Distribution,               249,000 leased 
                   warehouse      administrative and 
                                  customer service 
Reno, NV           Warehouse      Distribution                 70,000 leased 
Carle Place, NY    Office         Headquarters                 80,500 leased 
Bethpage, NY       Warehouse      Storage                         500 leased 
New York, NY       Office         Administrative                3,700 leased 
Cedar Falls, IA    Office         Administrative                3,300 leased 
Akron, OH          Office, plant  Manufacturing,              189,000 leased 
                   and warehouse  distribution and 
                                  administrative 
Cleveland, OH      Warehouse      Distribution                 18,900 leased 
                                  (temporary replacement 
                                  of Maple Heights 
                                  facility due to fire) 
Maple Heights, OH  Warehouse      Distribution                341,800 leased 
                                  (currently not in use 
                                  due to fire) 
Obetz, OH          Warehouse      Distribution                176,000 leased 
Twinsburg, OH      Warehouse      Distribution                315,000 leased 
                                  (temporary replacement 
                                  of Maple Heights 
                                  facility due to fire) 
Westerville, OH    Office, plant  Manufacturing,               86,000 owned 
                   and warehouse  distribution and 
                                  administrative 
Burnley, UK        Office         Administrative                6,000 leased 
Memphis, TN        Warehouse      Distribution                 40,000 leased 
Exeter, CA         Warehouse      Storage                      75,000 leased 
Fort Wayne, IN     Warehouse      Storage                      50,000 leased 
Hebron, OH         Office, plant  Manufacturing,              330,900 owned 
                   and warehouse  distribution and 
                                  administrative 
Newark, OH         Warehouse      Storage                      20,000 leased 
Zanesville, OH     Warehouse      Storage                       5,000 leased 
Central Point, OR  Warehouse      Storage                      17,000 leased 
Eugene, OR         Office         Call Center                   6,200 leased 
Jackson County, OR Orchards       Farming                1644 (acres) owned 
Jackson County, OR Orchards       Farming                41 (acres)   leased 
Klamath Falls, OR  Warehouse      Storage                       7,500 leased 
Medford, OR        Warehouse      Storage                     381,500 leased 
Medford, OR        Office, plant  Manufacturing,            1,112,000 owned 
                   and warehouse  distribution and 
                                  administrative 
Medford, OR        Office         Photo Studio                 10,000 leased 
Toughkenamon, PA   Warehouse      Storage                     111,200 leased 
East Wenatchee, WA Warehouse      Storage                       1,600 leased 
  

 
In addition to the above properties, the Company leases approximately 303,000 
square feet for owned or franchised retail stores and local fulfillment centers 
with lease terms typically ranging from 2 to 20 years. Some of its leases 
provide for a minimum rent plus a percentage rent based upon sales after 
certain minimum thresholds are achieved. The leases generally require the 
Company to pay insurance, utilities, real estate taxes and repair and 
maintenance expenses. In general, our properties are well maintained, adequate 
and suitable for their purposes. 
 
  22 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Item 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims 
arising in the ordinary course of business: 
 
In re Trilegiant Corporation, Inc. (Frank v.Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., et 
al): 
 
On November 10, 2010, a purported class action complaint was filed in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York naming the 
Company (along with Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., Affinion, Inc. and Chase Bank 
USA, N.A.) as defendants in an action purporting to assert claims against the 
Company alleging violations arising under the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Practices Act ("CUTPA") among other statutes, and for breach of contract and 
unjust enrichment in connection with certain post-transaction marketing 
practices in which certain of the Company's subsidiaries previously engaged in 
with certain third-party vendors. On December 23, 2011, plaintiff filed a 
notice of voluntary dismissal seeking to dismiss the entire action without 
prejudice. The court entered an Order on November 28, 2012, dismissing the case 
in its entirety. This case was subsequently refiled in the United States 
District Court for the District of Connecticut. 
 
On March 6, 2012 and March 15, 2012, two additional purported class action 
complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of 
Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as defendants in 
actions purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted in 
the lawsuit filed on November 10, 2010. In each case, plaintiffs seek to have 
the respective case certified as a class action and seek restitution and other 
damages, each in an amount in excess of $5.0 million. On April 26, 2012, the 
two Connecticut cases were consolidated with a third case previously pending in 
the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in which the 
Company is not a party (the "Consolidated Action"). A consolidated amended 
complaint was filed by plaintiffs on September 7, 2012, purporting to assert 
claims substantially similar to those originally asserted. The Company moved to 
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on December 7, 2012, which was 
subsequently refiled at the direction of the Court on January 16, 2013. 
 
On December 5, 2012, the same plaintiff from the action voluntarily dismissed 
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York filed 
a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the 
District of Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as 
defendants, purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted 
in the consolidated amended complaint (the "Frank Action"). On January 23, 
2013, plaintiffs in the Consolidated Action filed a motion to transfer and 
consolidate the action filed on December 5, 2012 with the Consolidated Action. 
The Company intends to defend each of these actions vigorously. 
 
On January 31, 2013, the court issued an order to show cause directing 
plaintiffs' counsel in the Frank Action, also counsel for plaintiffs in the 
Consolidated Action, to show cause why the Frank Action is distinguishable from 
the Consolidated Action such that it may be maintained despite the 
prior-pending action doctrine. On June 13, 2013, the court issued an order in 
the Frank Action suspending deadlines to answer or to otherwise respond to the 
complaint until 21 days after the court decides whether the Frank Action should 
be consolidated with the Consolidated Action. On July 24, 2013 the Frank Action 
was reassigned to Judge Vanessa Bryant, before whom the Consolidated Action is 
currently pending, for all further proceedings. On August 14, 2013, other 
defendants filed a motion for clarification in the Frank Action requesting that 
Judge Bryant clarify the order suspending deadlines. 
 
On March 28, 2014, the Court issued a series of rulings disposing of all the 
pending motions in both the Consolidated Action and the Frank Action. Among 
other things, the Court dismissed several causes of action, leaving pending a 
claim for CUTPA violations stemming from Trilegiant's refund mitigation 
strategy and a claim for unjust enrichment. Thereafter, the Court consolidated 
the Frank case into the Consolidated Action. On April 28, 2014 plaintiffs moved 
for leave to appeal the various rulings against them to the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit and to have a partial final judgment entered 
dismissing those claims that the Court had ordered dismissed. The Company filed 
its Answer to the Complaint on May 12, 2014. On March 26, 2015, the Court 
denied plaintiffs' motions and the parties are now engaged in discovery. 
 
  23 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Edible Arrangements: 
 
On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court 
for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible 
Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company's use of the terms 
"Fruit Bouquets," "Edible," "Bouquet," "Edible Fruit Arrangements," Edible 
Arrangements," and "DoFruit" and its use of a six petal pineapple slice design 
in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit arrangements constitutes 
trademark infringement, false designation of origin, dilution, and contributory 
infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC (s) 1114 and 1125(a), common 
law unfair competition, and a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes (s) 42-110b (a). The Complaint 
alleges Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the amount of $97,411,000. The 
Complaint requests a declaratory judgment in favor of Edible Arrangements, an 
injunction against the Company's use of the terms and design, an accounting and 
payment of the Company's profits from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a 
trebling of the Company's profits from such sales or of any damages sustained 
by Edible Arrangements, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. On November 24, 
2014, the Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of 
these terms and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of 
the Company's remote subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. 
 
On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the 
Company's subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $ 101,436,000. The Company 
filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer asserts 
substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and 
descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of 
Edible Arrangements' trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and trademark 
misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, 
functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible 
Arrangements' use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the antitrust laws. 
 
The Counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and 
invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements' registrations 
due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary meaning as to 
any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be determined for 
violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act and the 
Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
 
Discovery has begun and Edible Arrangements filed a motion to dismiss the 
Company's Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The 
Company filed its brief in opposition to the motion to dismiss on July 10, 
2015. The parties are awaiting a decision from the Court. By Order dated May 4, 
2015, the court ordered a phasing of the case and bifurcated the antitrust 
Counterclaim from the infringement claims. 
 
The Company believes its Counterclaims to the Edible Arrangements' claims are 
meritorious and that there are substantial defenses to both of the claims above 
and expects to defend the claims vigorously. 
 
There are no assurances that additional legal actions will not be instituted in 
connection with the Company's former post-transaction marketing practices 
involving third party vendors nor can we predict the outcome of any such legal 
action. At this time, we are unable to estimate a possible loss or range of 
possible loss for the aforementioned actions for various reasons, including, 
among others: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings 
are in the very early stages and in the Frank v. Trilegiant Corporation, Inc. 
matter, the court has not yet ruled as to whether the classes will be 
certified, and (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending motions. 
As a result of the foregoing, we have determined that the amount of possible 
loss or range of loss is not reasonably estimable. However, legal matters are 
inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of 
which may be beyond our control. 
 
Item 4.     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
 
Not applicable. 
 
  24 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
 
The following individuals were serving as executive officers of the Company and 
certain of its subsidiaries on September 11, 2015: 
 
 
 
Name                  Age Position with the Company 
James F. McCann        64 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
Christopher G. McCann  54 Director and President 
Arnie Leap             47 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer 
Gerard M. Gallagher    62 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary 
Mark L. Nance          65 President, BloomNet 
William E. Shea        56 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer 
David Taiclet          52 President, Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets 
Thomas Hartnett        52 President, Consumer Floral 
  

 
 James F. McCann has served as the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer since inception. Mr. McCann has been in the floral industry 
since 1976 when he began a retail chain of flower shops in the New York 
metropolitan area. Mr. McCann is chairman of the board of directors of Willis 
Holdings Group and is a director on the board of directors for International 
Game Technology PLC and The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. James F. McCann is the 
brother of Christopher G. McCann, a Director and the President of the Company. 
 
Christopher G. McCann has been the Company's President since September 2000 and 
prior to that had served as the Company's Senior Vice President. Mr. McCann has 
been a Director of the Company since inception. In June 2010, Mr. McCann was 
also named President of the Floral Group, which consists of the Consumer Floral 
and BloomNet Wire Service businesses. Mr. McCann is a member of the Board of 
Trustees of Marist College. Christopher G. McCann is the brother of James F. 
McCann, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. 
 
Arnie Leap has been the Company's Chief Information Officer since November 
2013. Mr. Leap served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Technology 
Officer for Direct Insite Corp. from November 2000 until joining the Company. 
Mr. Leap served in various positions with Direct Insite, including the 
Executive Vice President Channel Sales and Executive Vice President Sales and 
Marketing.  Mr. Leap's background includes senior management positions with 
over 20 years experience in the technology sector. 
 
Gerard M. Gallagher has been the Company's Senior Vice President, General 
Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 1999 and has been providing legal 
services to the Company since its inception. Mr. Gallagher is the founder and a 
managing partner in the law firm Gallagher, Walker, Bianco and Plastaras, based 
in Mineola, New York, specializing in corporate, litigation and intellectual 
property matters since 1993. Mr. Gallagher is duly admitted to practice before 
the New York State Courts and the United States District Courts of both the 
Eastern District and Southern District of New York. 
 
Mark L. Nance has been President of BloomNet since August 2006. Before holding 
his current position, Mr. Nance was a Senior Vice President, Sales and 
Marketing for BloomNet after joining us in December 2004. Before joining us, 
Mr. Nance was an Executive Vice President and General Manager with Teleflora, 
LLC from November 2000 until June 2004 and held various senior level positions 
at American Floral Services, Inc. from 1983 to 2000. 
 
  25 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
William E. Shea has been the Company's Senior Vice President, Treasurer and 
Chief Financial Officer since September 2000. Before holding his current 
position, Mr. Shea was Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller after 
joining the Company in April 1996. From 1980 until joining the Company, Mr. 
Shea was a certified public accountant with Ernst & Young LLP. 
 
David Taiclet has been the Company's President of Gourmet Foods and Gift 
Baskets since June 2009. Mr. Taiclet served as Chief Executive Officer of the 
Fannie May Confections Brands from April 2006 to June 2009. Prior thereto and 
commencing in January 1995, Mr. Taiclet was a Co-Founder of a business that 
ultimately became known as Fannie May Confections Brands, Inc. (formerly Alpine 
Confections, Inc.), a multi-branded and multi-channel retailer, manufacturer, 
and distributor of confectionery and specialty food products. From May 1991 to 
January 1995, Mr. Taiclet served in a variety of management positions with 
Cargill, Inc, including the Strategy and Business Development Group. Cargill, 
Inc. is an international marketer, processor and distributor of food, financial 
and industrial products. Mr. Taiclet also served four years of active duty in 
the U.S. Army, attaining the rank of Captain. 
 
Thomas Hartnett has been the Company's President of Consumer Floral since 
October 2013. Previously, he was the Company's SVP and CFO of the Consumer 
Floral Brand since April 2010. Mr. Hartnett had previously served as the 
Company's SVP and COO of the Consumer Floral Brand from June 2006 through April 
2010. Prior to this role, Mr. Hartnett was Senior Vice President of Retail and 
Fulfillment from September 2000. Before holding these positions, Mr. Hartnett 
held various positions within the Company since joining in 1991, including 
Controller, Director of Store Operations, Vice President of Retail Operations 
and Vice President of Strategic Development. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. 
Hartnett was a certified public accountant with Ernst & Young LLP. 
 
  26 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
PART II 
 
 
 
Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES 
        OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  

 
Market Information 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM's Class A common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select 
Market under the ticker symbol "FLWS." There is no established public trading 
market for the Company's Class B common stock. The following table sets forth 
the reported high and low sales prices for the Company's Class A common stock 
for each of the fiscal quarters during the fiscal years ended June 28, 2015 and 
June 29, 2014. 
 
 
 
                                       High    Low 
Year ended June 28, 2015 
June 30, 2014 - September 28, 2014      $ 7.49 $ 4.96 
September 29, 2014 - December 28, 2014  $ 9.31 $ 7.12 
December 29, 2014 - March 29, 2015     $ 13.46 $ 7.05 
March 30, 2015 - June 28, 2015         $ 13.19 $ 9.36 
Year ended June 29, 2014 
July 1, 2013 - September 29, 2013       $ 7.17 $ 5.15 
September 30, 2013 - December 29, 2013  $ 5.75 $ 4.53 
December 30, 2013 - March 30, 2014      $ 5.88 $ 4.65 
March 31, 2014 - June 29, 2014          $ 5.95 $ 4.97 
  

 
Rights of Common Stock 
 
Holders of Class A common stock generally have the same rights as the holders 
of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock have one 
vote per share and holders of Class B common stock have 10 votes per share on 
all matters submitted to the vote of stockholders. Holders of Class A common 
stock and Class B common stock generally vote together as a single class on all 
matters presented to the stockholders for their vote or approval, except as may 
be required by Delaware law. Class B common stock may be converted into Class A 
common stock at any time on a one-for-one share basis. Each share of Class B 
common stock will automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock 
upon its transfer, with limited exceptions. During fiscal 2015, 2,748,550 
shares of Class B common stock were converted into shares of Class A common 
stock. 
 
Holders 
 
As of September 1, 2015, there were approximately 257 stockholders of record of 
the Company's Class A common stock, although the Company believes that there is 
a significantly larger number of beneficial owners. As of September 1, 2015, 
there were approximately 13 stockholders of record of the Company's Class B 
common stock. 
 
Dividend Policy 
 
The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its Class A or 
Class B common stock.  Although the Company has no current intent to do so, the 
Company may choose, at some future date, to use some portion of its cash for 
the purpose of cash dividends. 
 
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer 
 
The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made 
from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated 
transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is 
financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company's Board of 
Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. 
The Company repurchased a total of $8.4 million (1,056,038 shares), $8.3 
million (1,561,206 shares) and $9.6 million (2,490,065 shares) during the 
fiscal years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively, under this program. As of June 28, 2015, $27.3 million remains 
authorized under the plan. 
 
  27 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for the months indicated, the Company's 
purchase of common stock during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, which 
includes the period June 30, 2014 through June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
Period              Total Number   Average Price  Total Number   Dollar Value 
                    of Shares      Paid Per       of Shares      of Shares that 
                    Purchased      Share          Purchased as   May Yet Be 
                                                  Part of        Purchased 
                                                  Publicly       Under the 
                                                  Announced      Plans or 
                                                  Plans or       Programs (in 
                                                  Programs       thousands) 
 
                                   (1) 
                    (in thousands, except average price paid per 
                    share) 
  6/30/14 - 7/27/14           86.9         $ 5.58           86.9       $ 10,145 
  7/28/13 - 8/31/14           92.9         $ 5.14           92.9        $ 9,665 
   9/1/14 - 9/28/14           31.8         $ 5.44           31.8        $ 9,492 
 9/29/14 - 10/26/14              -              -              -        $ 9,492 
10/27/14 - 11/23/14          416.2         $ 8.02          416.2        $ 6,152 
11/24/14 - 12/28/14           67.8         $ 7.79           67.8        $ 5,621 
 12/29/14 - 1/25/15           72.4         $ 7.59           72.4        $ 5,070 
  1/26/15 - 2/22/15           22.5         $ 7.40           22.5        $ 4,903 
  2/23/15 - 3/29/15              -              -              -        $ 4,903 
  3/30/15 - 4/26/15              -              -              -        $ 4,903 
  4/27/15 - 5/24/15           75.9         $ 9.80           75.9        $ 4,157 
  5/25/15 - 6/28/15          189.6         $ 9.90          189.6       $ 27,272 
Total                      1,056.0         $ 7.90        1,056.0 
  

 
(1) Average price per share excludes commissions and other transaction fees. 
 
  28 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Item 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
 
The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended June 
28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 and the consolidated balance sheet 
data as of June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, have been derived from the 
Company's audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated statement of operations 
data for the years ended July 1, 2012 and July 3, 2011, and the selected 
consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2013, July 1, 2012 and July 3, 
2011, are derived from the Company's audited consolidated financial statements 
which are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
The following tables summarize the Company's consolidated statement of 
operations and balance sheet data. The Company acquired Harry & David in 
September 2014, 16 franchised stores from GB Chocolates on June 27, 2014, 
iFlorist in December 2013, Pingg Corp in May 2013 (disposed of in June 2015), 
Flowerama in August 2011, Fine Stationery, Inc. in May 2011 (disposed of in 
June 2015) and Mrs. Beasley's Bakery LLC in March 2011. The following financial 
data reflects the results of operations of these subsidiaries since their 
respective dates of acquisition. On September 6, 2011, the Company completed 
the sale of certain assets of its wine fulfillment services business operated 
by its Winetasting Network subsidiary. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 
2013, the Company made the strategic decision to divest the e-commerce and 
procurement businesses of its Winetasting Network subsidiary in order to focus 
on growth opportunities in its Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. 
The Company closed on the sale of its Winetasting Network business on December 
31, 2013. As a result, the Company has classified the results of its wine 
fulfillment services business as a discontinued operation for fiscal 2012 and 
2011, and the results of the e-commerce and procurement businesses as 
discontinued operations for fiscal 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011. This information 
should be read together with the discussion in "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Company's 
consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included 
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
                          Years ended 
                          June 28,    June 29,  June 30,  July 1,   July 3, 
 
                          2015        2014      2013      2012      2011 
                          (in thousands, except per share data) 
Consolidated Statement of 
Operations Data: 
Net revenues              $ 1,121,506 $ 756,345 $ 735,497 $ 707,517 $ 661,389 
Cost of revenues              634,311   440,672   430,305   414,940   386,296 
Gross profit                  487,195   315,673   305,192   292,577   275,093 
Operating expenses: 
Marketing and sales           299,801   194,847   186,720   181,199   171,960 
Technology and                 34,745    22,518    21,700    20,426    20,109 
development 
General and                    85,908    54,754    52,188    51,474    48,701 
administrative 
Depreciation and               29,124    19,848    18,798    19,540    20,237 
amortization 
Total operating expenses      449,578   291,967   279,406   272,639   261,007 
Gain on sale of stores              -         -         -     3,789         - 
Operating income               37,617    23,706    25,786    23,727    14,086 
Interest expense and            7,303     1,357       991     2,635     3,993 
other, net 
Income from continuing         30,314    22,349    24,795    21,092    10,093 
operations before income 
taxes 
Income tax expense from        10,930     8,403     9,073     7,771     3,903 
continuing operations 
Income from continuing         19,384    13,946    15,722    13,321     6,190 
operations 
Income (loss) from                  -       729   (3,401)     4,325     (468) 
discontinued operations, 
net of tax 
Net income                     19,384    14,675    12,321    17,646     5,722 
Less: Net loss                  (903)     (697)         -         -         - 
attributable to 
noncontrolling interest 
Net income attributable      $ 20,287  $ 15,372  $ 12,321  $ 17,646   $ 5,722 
to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Basic net income (loss) 
per common share 
attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing                $ 0.31    $ 0.23    $ 0.24    $ 0.21    $ 0.10 
operations 
From discontinued              $ 0.00    $ 0.01    (0.05)      0.07    (0.01) 
operations 
Basic net income per           $ 0.31    $ 0.24    $ 0.19    $ 0.27    $ 0.09 
common share 
Diluted net income (loss) 
per common share 
attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing                $ 0.30    $ 0.22    $ 0.24    $ 0.20    $ 0.10 
operations 
From discontinued              $ 0.00    $ 0.01    (0.05)      0.07    (0.01) 
operations 
Diluted net income per         $ 0.30    $ 0.23    $ 0.19    $ 0.27    $ 0.09 
common share 
Weighted average shares 
used in the calculation 
of net income (loss) per 
common share: 
Basic                          64,976    64,035    64,369    64,697    64,001 
Diluted                        67,602    66,460    66,792    66,239    65,153 
  

 
  29 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 As of 
                                 June 28, June 29, June 30,       July 1,  July 3, 
 
                                 2015     2014     2013           2012     2011 
                                                   (in thousands) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
Cash and cash equivalents        $ 27,940  $ 5,203          $ 154 $ 28,854 $ 21,442 
Working capital                    36,361   17,511         16,886   29,721   17,303 
Total assets                      501,946  267,569        250,073  262,213  259,075 
Long-term liabilities             168,083    7,144          5,039   17,080   32,242 
Total 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.     208,449  183,228        169,271  161,748  142,511 
stockholders' equity 
  

 
  30 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Item 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial 
condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of 
operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with 
the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear 
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking 
statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The 
Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the 
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any 
differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption 
"Forward-Looking Information" and under Item 1A - "Risk Factors." 
 
Description of Business 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. is the world's leading florist 
and gift shop. For nearly 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS(R) (1-800-356-9377 or 
www.1800flowers.com) has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with 
gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of 
plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush 
stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee(R) backs every gift. 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM was recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 
as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. Additionally, the Company 
was included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce 
companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM  was named a winner of the "Best 
Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for 
Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was awarded the 2014 
Silver Stevie Award, recognizing the organization's outstanding Customer 
Service and commitment to our 100% Smile Guarantee(R).  1-800-FLOWERS.COM 
received a Gold Award for Best User Experience on a Mobile Optimized Site for 
the 2013 Horizon Interactive Awards. 
 
The Company's BloomNet(R) international floral wire service 
(www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added 
services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses 
profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such 
as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David(R) 
(1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from 
The Popcorn Factory(R)(1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies 
and baked gifts from Cheryl's(R) (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium 
chocolates and confections from Fannie May(R) (www.fanniemay.com and 
www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com(R) 
(www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from 
Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit 
arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality 
steaks and chops from Stock Yards(R) (www.stockyards.com). 
 
On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David, 
a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium 
gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the 
Harry & David(R), Wolferman's(R) and Cushman's(R) brands. The transaction, at a 
purchase price of $142.5 million, included the Harry & David's brands and 
websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities 
and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in 
Hebron, Ohio and 48 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. 
Harry & David's revenues were approximately $386 million in fiscal 2014, with 
Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $28 million. 
 
Including the contribution of Harry & David from date of acquisition, the 
Company generated total annual net revenues of $1.12 billion and Adjusted 
EBITDA of $95.3 million for fiscal 2015 (excluding stock based compensation, 
transaction/integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to 
the Harry & David acquisition and the impact of the Fannie May warehouse fire). 
It should be noted that the revenue and Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal 2015 do not 
include the results of Harry & David for the fiscal first quarter of the year, 
which is typically its lowest in terms of revenues and includes significant 
losses due to the seasonality of its business. The historical results of Harry 
& David, as well as applicable pro forma results are included in the Company's 
Form 8-K/A filed on December 16, 2014. 
 
In order to finance the acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered 
into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a 
group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million 
five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 
2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a 
seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be 
used for working capital (subject to the applicable sublimit) and general 
corporate purposes. 
 
  31 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio 
warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, 
the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 
2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the 
facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its 
Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in 
its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during 
the holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase 
production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products 
at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and 
distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability 
was severely limited impacting revenue and earnings during the fiscal second 
and third quarters of fiscal 2015. The Company does not believe that there will 
be any further significant impact on revenues from this issue beyond the year 
ended June 28, 2015. 
 
The impact of lost sales related to the fire was estimated to be $17.3 million 
during the year ended June 28, 2015, with corresponding loss of income from 
continuing operations before income taxes of $6.6 million. While no insurance 
recoveries have been recorded to date related to lost sales, the Company 
expects that its property and business interruption insurance will cover these 
losses. 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
Winetasting Network business on December 31, 2013. The Company has classified 
the results of the e-commerce and procurement business of The Winetasting 
Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
 
As a provider of gifts to consumers and wholesalers for resale to consumers, 
the Company is subject to changes in consumer confidence and the economic 
conditions that impact our customers. Demand for the Company's products is 
affected by the financial health of our customers, which, in turn, is 
influenced by macro economic issues such as unemployment, fuel and energy 
costs, trends in the housing market and availability of consumer credit. While 
consumers appear more upbeat about the economy, during the recent economic 
downturn, the demand for our products had been adversely affected by the 
reduction in consumer spending, and the Company expects that its revenues will 
continue to be closely tied to changes in consumer sentiment. 
 
Fiscal 2015 was a transformative year for the Company. The acquisition of the 
iconic Harry & David brands helped the Company to extend its position as a 
leading, omni-channel provider of top quality gifts that resonate with our 
customers for all of their celebratory occasions. This acquisition combined 
with continued organic improvement within all segments of the Company's core 
businesses have resulted in a business exceeding $1.1 billion in revenue during 
fiscal 2015. However, fiscal 2105 was not without its challenges, the most 
significant of which was the Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse fire on Thanksgiving 
Day which destroyed most of Fannie May's inventory, which was at its annual 
peak in preparation for the upcoming Holidays. As a result, the Company had 
limited supplies of its Fannie May chocolate products available in its retail 
stores as well as for its e-commerce and wholesale channels during the holiday 
season. While the Company immediately implemented contingency plans to increase 
production at its facility in Canton, Ohio, and to shift warehousing and 
distribution operations to alternate facilities, product availability was 
severely limited. In addition to the fire, the Company effectively steered its 
way through the challenging day placement of Valentine's Day, which moved from 
Friday in fiscal 2014 to Saturday in fiscal 2015. This shift presented not only 
logistical challenges related to Friday/Saturday deliveries, but also impacts 
overall demand as customers have more gifting options, such as dining out, when 
Valentine's Day falls on a weekend. 
 
Recognizing the need to balance the Company's short and long-term operating and 
financial objectives, the primary objectives during fiscal 2016 are to generate 
outsized earnings growth under a strategy which minimizes risk by focusing on 
achieving moderate revenue growth from the Company's core businesses, while 
driving synergistic opportunities from the acquisition of Harry & David which 
are expected to generate $15 million in operating synergies over a 3-year 
period and contribute significant, multi-channel revenue growth synergies. 
Tempered by the current economic climate, during fiscal 2016, the Company said 
it expects to achieve consolidated revenue growth for the year in a range of 
five-to-seven percent, compared with revenues of $1.12 billion reported for 
fiscal 2015. In terms of bottom-line results, the Company expects to grow 
EBITDA approximately 10% and EPS in excess of 20 percent, compared with pro 
forma fiscal 2015 Adjusted EBITDA* of $80.5 million and pro forma fiscal 2015 
Adjusted EPS* of $0.33 per diluted share. (*Pro forma fiscal 2015 Adjusted 
EBITDA and Adjusted EPS include seasonal losses associated with Harry & David 
that are incurred in its fiscal 2015 first quarter. These losses were not 
captured in the Company's fiscal 2015 results due to the close of the 
acquisition on September 30, 2014.) 
 
  32 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
When the Company launched its integration efforts for Harry & David in January 
of 2015, it created an all-encompassing program designed to look at how the 
Company can enhance all aspects of its business. As a result of this approach, 
workstreams in areas including marketing and merchandising, manufacturing, 
distribution, finance, and human resources are focusing on identifying and 
achieving a number of initiatives that will enable it to drive enhanced top and 
bottom-line growth in fiscal 2016, including: 
 
 
 
679; Cost synergy opportunities - where the Company has made significant 
     headway towards identifying and implementing the programs that are 
     expected to drive $15 million in synergies over the next three year. While 
     we continue to focus on capturing these cost synergies, the Company is 
     also working on revenue opportunities in areas such as: 
  

 
 
 
679; Our combined customer database - where we have new software tools that can 
     help the Company to significantly enhance the relevancy of our marketing 
     messages so that we can expand and deepen our relationships with the 
     customers in our significant database; 
  

 
 
 
679; Our multi-brand website - launched in fiscal 2015, the Company is now 
     focusing its marketing efforts on developing and growing its multi-branded 
     customer, providing for increased customer counts and purchase frequency 
     through increased penetration of its suite of floral and food gift 
     products, including the recently acquired Harry & David brand. Through the 
     multi-brand website, the Company is creating a one-stop gift shop 
     featuring all of our brands with a single shopping cart, a single address 
     book, the Celebrations Rewards and Reminders programs and the Celebrations 
     Passport free shipping program - all designed to ease the customers' 
     gifting experience, and 
  

 
 
 
679; Our Mass-Channel - where the Company can leverage its wholesale account 
     relationships along with our manufacturing capabilities and expanded 
     production capacities to grow our business with brands like Moose Munch, 
     Wolferman's, the Popcorn Factory and Harry London. 
  

 
The Company believes that these initiatives and its continued focus on the 
following core values will drive long-term profitable growth: 
 
 
 
679; Know and Take Care of Our Customer - by providing the right products and 
     the best services with consistent, excellent quality and value to help 
     them express themselves and deliver smiles. 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was awarded 
     the 2014 Silver Stevie Award, recognizing the organization's outstanding 
     Customer Service and commitment to our 100% Smile Guarantee. 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM is rated "EXCELLENT" by StellaService. 
  

 
 
 
679; Maintain and enhance our Financial Strength and Flexibility - by seeking 
     ways to reduce our operating costs while strengthening our balance sheet 
     and adding flexibility to our capital structure. During fiscal 2015, the 
     Company completed the purchase of Harry & David and in order to finance 
     the acquisition entered into a credit agreement consisting of a term-loan 
     and a new revolving credit facility, assuring capital availability and 
     future flexibility. 
  

 
 
 
679; Continue to Innovate and Invest for the Future - by investing in 
     technology and new growth opportunities 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was included in 
     Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading 
     mobile commerce sites. Additionally, the Company was included in Internet 
     Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM received a Gold Award for Best User Experience on a 
     Mobile Optimized Site for the 2013 Horizon Interactive Awards. In 2015, 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in 
     New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource 
     Management (NYS-SHRM), demonstrating its investment in its employees. 
  

 
  33 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Faced with a still challenging economic climate, these strategic investments, 
coupled with improved manufacturing and labor efficiency plans and more 
targeted and efficient advertising spend, will not only generate revenue growth 
and consumer loyalty but position the Company to achieve its strategic, 
financial and operational objectives in the coming year, which in turn will 
build shareholder value. 
 
Category Information 
 
The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category 
contribution margin from each of the Company's business segments, as well as 
consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. As noted previously, the Company's 
e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting Network subsidiary, 
which had previously been included within its Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets 
category, have been classified as discontinued operations and therefore 
excluded from category information below for fiscal 2014 and 2013. (Due to 
certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been 
included within MD&A.) 
 
  34 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Years Ended 
                  June 28,      Impact of   Impact of    Impact of    Impact of     Impact of     Impact of   June 28,      June 29,    %        June 30,    % 
                  2015          Warehouse   Purchase     Purchase     Acquisition   Integration   Severance   2015          2014        Change   2013        Change 
                                Fire        Accounting   Accounting   Costs         Costs         Costs       Adjusted 
                                            Adjustment   Adjustment                                           Net 
                                            to           for                                                  Revenue 
                                            Deferred     Inventory 
                                            Revenue      Fair Value 
                                                         Step-Up 
                  (dollars in thousands) 
Net revenues from 
continuing 
operations: 
1-800-Flowers.com   $ 422,199           -            -            -             -             -           -     $ 422,199   $ 421,336      0.2 % $ 411,526      2.4 % 
Consumer Floral 
BloomNet Wire          85,968         350            -            -             -             -           -        86,318      84,199      2.5 %    81,822      2.9 % 
Service 
Gourmet Food &        613,953      16,934        1,621            -             -             -           -       632,508     251,990    151.0 %   243,225      3.6 % 
Gift Baskets 
Corporate               1,020           -            -            -             -             -           -         1,020         797     28.0 %       789      1.0 % 
Intercompany          (1,634)           -            -            -             -             -           -       (1,634)     (1,977)     17.3 %   (1,865)   (6.0%) 
eliminations 
Total net         $ 1,121,506    $ 17,284      $ 1,621            -             -             -           -   $ 1,140,411   $ 756,345     50.8 % $ 735,497      2.8 % 
revenues from 
continuing 
operations 
Gross profit from 
continuing 
operations: 
1-800-Flowers.com   $ 165,677           -            -            -             -             -           -     $ 165,677   $ 164,792      0.5 % $ 163,726      0.7 % 
Consumer Floral 
                         39.2 %         -            -            -             -             -           -          39.2 %      39.1 %               39.8 % 
BloomNet Wire          47,924          70            -            -             -             -           -        47,994      44,900      6.9 %    41,674      7.7 % 
Service 
                         55.7 %         -            -            -             -             -           -          55.6 %      53.3 %               50.9 % 
Gourmet Food &        272,690       6,745        1,621        4,760             -             -           -       285,816     105,092    172.0 %    98,839      6.3 % 
Gift Baskets 
                         44.4 %         -            -            -             -             -           -          45.2 %      41.7 %               40.6 % 
Corporate (*)             904           -            -            -             -             -           -           904         889      1.7 %       953   (6.7%) 
                         88.6 %         -            -            -             -             -           -          88.6 %     111.5 % 
                                                                                                                                                         - 
Total gross         $ 487,195     $ 6,815      $ 1,621      $ 4,760             -             -           -     $ 500,391   $ 315,673     58.5 % $ 305,192      3.4 % 
profit from 
continuing 
operations 
                         43.4 %      39.4 %      100.0 %      100.0 %         0.0 %         0.0 %       0.0 %        43.9 %      41.7 %               41.5 % 
  

 
  35 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Years Ended 
                  June 28, Impact of Impact of  Impact of  Impact of   Impact of   Impact of June 28, June 29, %        June 30, % 
                  2015     Warehouse Purchase   Purchase   Acquisition Integration Severance 2015     2014     Change   2013     Change 
                           Fire      Accounting Accounting Costs       Costs       Costs     Adjusted 
                                     Adjustment Adjustment                                   Net 
                                     to         for                                          Revenue 
                                     Deferred   Inventory 
                                     Revenue    Fair Value 
                                                Step-Up 
                  (dollars in thousands) 
EBITDA from 
continuing 
operations, 
excluding stock- 
based 
compensation 
Category 
Contribution 
Margin from 
continuing 
operations: 
1-800-Flowers.com $ 43,529         -          -          -           -           -         - $ 43,529 $ 40,252    8.1 % $ 47,193 (14.7%) 
Consumer Floral 
BloomNet Wire       29,398        70          -          -           -           -         -   29,468   26,715   10.3 %   25,611     4.3 % 
Service 
Gourmet Food &      74,889     6,486      1,621      4,760       1,238           -     1,989   90,983   27,122  235.5 %   20,345    33.3 % 
Gift Baskets 
Category           147,816     6,556      1,621      4,760       1,238           -     1,989  163,980   94,089   74.3 %   93,149     1.0 % 
Contribution 
Margin Subtotal 
Corporate (*)     (81,075)         -          -          -       2,910       3,039       468 (74,658) (50,535)  -47.7 % (48,565) (4.1%) 
                                                                                                                    - 
EBITDA from       $ 66,741   $ 6,556    $ 1,621    $ 4,760     $ 4,148     $ 3,039   $ 2,457 $ 89,322 $ 43,554  105.1 %   44,584 (2.3%) 
continuing 
operations 
Add: Stock-based     5,962         -          -          -           -           -         -    5,962    4,664   27.8 %    4,283     8.9 % 
compensation 
EBITDA from       $ 72,703   $ 6,556    $ 1,621    $ 4,760     $ 4,148     $ 3,039   $ 2,457 $ 95,284 $ 48,218   97.6 %   48,867 (1.3%) 
continuing 
operations, 
excluding 
stock-based 
compensation 
  

 
  36 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of net income from continuing operations to adjusted net income 
from continuing operations attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.: 
 
 
 
                                                Year Ended 
                                                June 28,      June 29, June 30, 
 
                                                2015          2014     2013 
                                                (in thousands, except per share 
                                                date) 
Income from continuing operations                    $ 19,384 $ 13,946 $ 15,722 
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling           (903)    (697)        - 
interest 
Income from continuing operations attributable         20,287   14,643   15,722 
to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Add: Impact of warehouse fire, net of tax               4,189        -        - 
Add: Purchase accounting adjustment to deferred         1,036        -        - 
revenue, net of tax 
Add: Purchase accounting adjustment for                 3,042        -        - 
inventory fair value step- up, net of tax 
Add: Acquisition costs, net of tax                      2,650        -        - 
Add: Integration costs, net of tax                      1,942        -        - 
Add: Severance costs, net of tax                        1,570        -        - 
Adjusted income from continuing operations           $ 34,716 $ 14,643 $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Less: Income attributable to Harry & David             18,804        -        - 
Adjusted income from continuing operations           $ 15,912 $ 14,643 $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., 
excluding income attributable to Harry & David 
Income per common share from continuing 
operations attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Basic                                                  $ 0.31   $ 0.23   $ 0.24 
Diluted                                                $ 0.30   $ 0.22   $ 0.24 
Adjusted net income per common share from 
continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Basic                                                  $ 0.53   $ 0.23   $ 0.24 
Diluted                                                $ 0.51   $ 0.22   $ 0.24 
Adjusted net income per common share from 
continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. , excluding income 
attributable to Harry & David 
Basic                                                  $ 0.24   $ 0.23   $ 0.24 
Diluted                                                $ 0.24   $ 0.22   $ 0.24 
Weighted average shares used in the calculation 
of net income and adjusted net income per 
common share from continuing operations 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc 
Basic                                                  64,976   64,035   64,369 
Diluted                                                67,602   66,460   66,792 
  

 
 
 
                                          Years Ended 
Discontinued operations:                  June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                          2015     2014     2013 
                                                   (dollars in 
                                                   thousands) 
Net revenues from discontinued operations           $ 1,669   $ 5,154 
Gross profit from discontinued operations             $ 429     $ 149 
EBITDA from discontinued operations                 $ (868) $ (2,769) 
  

 
  37 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of income from continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA from Continuing Operations, 
excluding stock-based compensation(**) and EBITDA attributable to Harry & 
David: 
 
 
 
                                                     Year Ended 
                                                     June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                                     2015     2014     2013 
                                                     (in thousands) 
Income from continuing operations attributable to    $ 20,287 $ 14,643 $ 15,722 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Add: 
Interest expense and other, net                         7,303    1,357      991 
Depreciation and amortization                          29,124   19,848   18,798 
Income tax expense                                     10,930    8,403    9,073 
Less: 
Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest        (903)    (697)        - 
EBITDA from continuing operations                      66,741   43,554   44,584 
Add: Stock-based compensation                           5,962    4,664    4,283 
EBITDA from continuing operations, excluding           72,703   48,218 $ 48,867 
stock-based compensation 
Add: Impact of warehouse fire                           6,556        - 
Add: Purchase accounting adjustment to deferred         1,621        - 
revenue 
Add: Purchase accounting adjustment for inventory       4,760        - 
fair value step-up 
Add: Acquisition costs                                  4,148        - 
Add: Integration costs                                  3,039        - 
Add: Severance costs                                    2,457        - 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations,          $ 95,284 $ 48,218 $ 48,867 
excluding stock-based compensation 
Less: EBITDA attributable to Harry & David             41,497        -        - 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations,          $ 53,787 $ 48,218 $ 48,867 
excluding stock-based compensation and EBITDA 
attributable to Harry & David 
  

 
 
 
(*) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost 
    centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human 
    Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service 
    Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation, and during the year 
    ended June 28, 2015 acquisition and integration costs (including severance) 
    related to the acquisition of Harry & David, in the amount of $9.6 million. 
    In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are 
    operated under a centralized management platform, providing support 
    services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other 
    than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to 
    the above segments based upon usage, are included within corporate 
    expenses, as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. The 
    Company has commenced integrating Harry & David into its operating 
    platforms, and as such, their operating costs have been classified in a 
    similar manner. 
  

 
 
 
(**) Performance is measured based on segment contribution margin or segment 
     Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and 
     operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of 
     profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate 
     overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income 
     (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes 
     EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement 
     tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental 
     measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the 
     investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market 
     capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial 
     information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of 
     bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. 
     The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial 
     information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage 
     and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also 
     used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition 
     candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as 
     an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a 
     substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. 
     Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or 
     cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA 
     does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash 
     requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the 
     Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are 
     non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to 
     be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash 
     requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, 
     EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP 
     results when evaluating the Company's performance. 
  

 
  38 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Results of Operations 
 
The Company's fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending on the Sunday 
nearest to June 30. Fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 consisted of 52 weeks 
which ended on June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
 
Net Revenues 
 
 
 
              Years Ended 
              June 28,    %        June 29,  %        June 30, 
 
              2015        Change   2014      Change   2013 
              (dollars in thousands) 
Net revenues: 
E-Commerce      $ 849,853   54.8 % $ 548,976    2.3 % $ 536,550 
Other             271,653   31.0 %   207,369    4.2 %   198,947 
              $ 1,121,506   48.3 % $ 756,345    2.8 % $ 735,497 
  

 
Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service 
or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. 
 
During the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, revenues increased 48.3% in 
comparison to the prior year primarily as a result of the incremental revenue 
generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, as well 
as growth across all three of the Company's business segments. After adjusting 
for lost revenue associated with the Thanksgiving Day fire at the Company's 
Fannie May warehouse and distribution center, estimated to be $17.3 million 
during the year ended June 28, 2015, and for the impact of purchase accounting 
adjustments to reduce the acquired value of Harry & David's deferred revenue of 
$1.6 million during the year ended June 28, 2015, pro forma revenue increased 
by 50.8% during the year ended June 28, 2015. Excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, organic revenue, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the 
Fannie May warehouse fire, increased 2.8% during the year ended June 28, 2015, 
despite the loss of revenue from the shift in the Valentine's Day Holiday to a 
Saturday in fiscal 2015. 
 
During the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014, revenues increased by 2.8% in 
comparison to the prior year as a result of revenue growth across all business 
segments. This growth was driven by: i) a combination of new product 
initiatives and increased marketing efforts focusing on the Company's 
"everyday" and "Just Because" campaigns, ii) incremental revenues generated by 
the Company's acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist on December 3, 
2013, iii) continued improvements within the BloomNet segment as a result of 
additional market penetration, and iv) improvements within the Gourmet Food & 
Gift Baskets segment as a result of the continued rebound of DesignPac's 
wholesale gift basket products, and solid ecommerce growth within Cheryl's 
bakery gifts product line. These growth drivers were partially offset by: i) 
the impact of severe winter weather beginning in January, culminating with the 
winter storm that affected much of the country during the key Valentine 
holiday, ii) the calendar shift that resulted in six fewer shopping days 
between Thanksgiving and Christmas and iii) the continuation of a difficult 
macro-economic climate, especially for the sellers of discretionary products. 
Adjusting for the pro forma impact of the revenue associated with the 
acquisition of a majority interest of iFlorist, revenue increased approximately 
1.8% during the year ended June 29, 2014. 
 
E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) increased by 54.8% during 
the year ended June 28, 2015, primarily as a result of the incremental 
e-commerce revenue generated by the recent acquisition of Harry & David, as 
well as organic growth from the Company's Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets 
segment, offset by the estimated loss of revenues from the warehouse fire. 
E-commerce revenues from the Consumer Floral segment were flat in comparison to 
fiscal 2014 as growth during the balance of the year was offset by a decline in 
Valentine's Day revenue resulting from the shift in the date placement of 
holiday from Friday in fiscal 2014 to Saturday in fiscal 2015. Reflecting the 
incremental sales from Harry & David, during fiscal 2015, the Company fulfilled 
approximately 12.0 million e-commerce orders, with an average order value of 
$70.87, representing increases of 31.5% and 17.9%, respectively, compared to 
fiscal 2014. 
 
E-commerce revenues increased by 2.3% during the year ended June 29, 2014. 
Revenue growth was attributable to: i) improved merchandising programs 
(including the development of innovative and original products such as the 
expanded line of a-DOG-ables, Cheryl's cookie cards and Fannie May Berries), 
designed to "wow" our customers' gift recipients, ii) our "Just Because" and 
"Never Settle For Less" marketing campaigns, and iii) the impact of the 
acquisition of iFlorist in December 2013. During fiscal 2014, these efforts 
were partially offset by the severe weather which impacted all of the Company's 
brands, especially during the 2014 Valentine holiday. During fiscal 2014, the 
Company fulfilled approximately 9.1 million e-commerce orders, an increase of 
3% in comparison to fiscal 2013, while average order value was $60.09, a 
decrease of 0.8% in comparison to fiscal 2013. 
 
  39 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Other revenues, comprised of the Company's BloomNet Wire Service segment, as 
well as the wholesale and retail sales channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com 
Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments, increased by 31.0% 
and 4.2% during fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively. The increase in 
fiscal 2015 was primarily due to the addition of Harry & David's retail and 
wholesale operations, and to a lesser extent, growth within BloomNet, partially 
offset by the sales lost as a result of the Thanksgiving Day warehouse fire. 
The increased revenue in fiscal 2014 was primarily due to growth in sales of 
DesignPac's wholesale gift baskets, partially offset by declines in Fannie May 
wholesale volume as a result of prior years' operational issues. Fiscal 2014 
also benefitted from growth within the BloomNet WireService segment. 
 
The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 
1-800-Flowers and iFlorist brands, and derives revenue from the sale of 
consumer floral products through its e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and 
online sales), royalties from its franchise operations, as well as the 
operations of Fine Stationery, an e-commerce retailer of personalized 
stationery, invitations and announcements, which was sold in June 2015. 
(Revenues and operating losses attributable to this business were not material 
in fiscal 2015.) Net revenues during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 
increased 0.2% primarily due to the incremental volume provided by iFlorist, 
which was acquired in December 2013, offset by lower order volume resulting 
from the Saturday placement of Valentine's Day. Excluding the impact of the 
acquisition of iFlorist, revenue of the 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral 
segment decreased by 0.2% in comparison to fiscal 2014. Net revenues during the 
fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 increased by 2.4% over the prior year, due to 
increased order volumes, driven by the acquisition of iFlorist and enhanced 
marketing and merchandising programs that encourage our customers to "wow" 
their gift recipients and "Never Settle For Less," offset by the loss of 
revenues from the severe weather that impacted the Valentine's Day holiday. 
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of iFlorist in December 2013, fiscal 
2014 revenue growth within the 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment was 
0.6%. 
 
The BloomNet Wire Service segment includes revenues from membership fees as 
well as other product and service offerings to florists. Net revenues during 
the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 increased 2.1%, as a result of higher 
membership and transaction fees, including the implementation of a new florist 
transaction program, and increased accessorial service revenue including 
directory advertising, partially offset by lower product sales as a result of 
decreased demand and the west coast dock strike. Net revenues during the fiscal 
year ended June 29, 2014 increased 2.9%, as a result of higher membership fees 
and transaction revenues, driven in part by pricing initiatives and increases 
in order volume from 1-800-Flowers.com and other BloomNet members, reflecting 
continued increases in market penetration for the Company's expanded suite of 
products and services. 
 
The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry & 
David, Cheryl's, Fannie May Confections, The Popcorn Factory, 
1-800-Baskets/DesignPac, and Stockyards.com. Revenue is derived from the sale 
of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, 
gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's 
e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and 
operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand 
names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenue during the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 increased 143.6% in comparison to the prior year, driven 
primarily by the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was 
acquired on September 30, 2014, complemented by strong organic e-commerce 
growth from Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets, partially offset by reduced revenue 
from Fannie May due to the Thanksgiving Day warehouse fire. After adjusting for 
the estimated lost revenue from the warehouse fire, and for the impact of 
purchase accounting adjustments to reduce the acquired value of Harry & David's 
deferred revenue, pro forma revenue for the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment 
increased 151.0% during the year ended June 28, 2015. Excluding the revenue 
contribution of Harry & David, Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets, revenue growth, 
adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the Fannie May warehouse fire, 
increased 7.8% during the year ended June 28, 2015. Net revenue during the 
fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 increased by 3.6% in comparison to the prior 
year, primarily due to Cheryl's e-commerce growth and the continued rebound in 
DesignPac wholesale gift basket sales, partially offset by the impact of the 
severe weather during the year. 
 
  40 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
For fiscal 2016, the Company expects to grow revenues across all three of its 
business segments with consolidated revenue growth for the year anticipated to 
be in the range of five-to-seven percent. 
 
Gross Profit 
 
 
 
               Years Ended 
               June 28,    %        June 29,    %        June 30, 
 
               2015        Change   2014        Change   2013 
               (dollars in thousands) 
Gross profit   $ 487,195     54.3 % $ 315,673      3.4 % $ 305,192 
Gross margin %      43.4 %               41.7 %               41.5 % 
  

 
Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised 
primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the 
cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from inventory or through third 
parties, and associated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. 
Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to 
direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. 
 
Gross profit increased 54.3% during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 in 
comparison to the prior year, primarily as a result of the incremental revenue 
and associated gross margins generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on 
September 30, 2014, as well as organic growth across all segments, partially 
offset by the impact of the revenues lost as a result of the Thanksgiving Day 
fire at the Company's Fannie May warehouse and distribution center. After 
adjusting for estimated lost gross profit from the warehouse fire of $6.8 
million during the year ended June 28, and for the impact of Harry & David 
purchase accounting adjustments related to deferred revenue of $1.6 million and 
step-up of inventory to fair value of $4.8 million during the year ended June 
28, 2015, gross profit during year ended June 28, 2015, increased by 58.5% in 
comparison to the prior year. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, organic 
gross profit, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the warehouse fire, 
increased 4.5% during the year ended June 28, 2015. Gross profit increased 3.4% 
during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 in comparison to fiscal 2013, due to 
revenue growth, including the acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist, 
combined with a 20 basis point expansion of gross margin percentage, primarily 
attributable to improvements within the Gourmet Food & Gift Basket and BloomNet 
WireService segments, partially offset by the impact of higher customer credits 
associated with the severe weather experienced during the Valentine holiday. 
 
Gross margin percentage increased 170 basis points to 43.4% during the fiscal 
year ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, as a result of the 
aforementioned Harry & David acquisition, which earns higher margins due to its 
vertically integrated operations, as well as organic improvements across all 
business segments. After adjusting for the estimated lost gross profit from the 
warehouse fire for fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 and for the impact of Harry 
& David purchase accounting adjustments related to deferred revenue and step-up 
of inventory to fair value for fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, pro forma gross 
margin percentage increased to 43.9% for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. 
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, organic gross margin percentage, adjusted 
for the estimated lost revenue from the warehouse fire, was 42.3% during the 
fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. 
 
The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit increased by 0.5% 
during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, due 
to the higher revenue, as described above. Excluding the impact of the 
acquisition of iFlorist, gross profit within the 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer 
Floral segment increased by 0.3%. Gross margin percentage increased 10 basis 
points to 39.2% during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the 
prior year as sourcing and logistics improvements were offset by lower margins 
earned by iFlorist. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit 
increased by 0.7% during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 in comparison to 
fiscal 2013, due to higher revenue. During fiscal 2014, the Company experienced 
a decline in the gross margin percentage of 70 basis points as a result of 
lower margins associated with the newly acquired iFlorist business, as well as 
higher customer credits issued during the period due to the severe weather 
during the Valentine holiday. Excluding the impact of the iFlorist acquisition, 
gross margin percentage decreased 40 basis points. 
 
BloomNet Wire Service segment's gross profit increased by 6.7% and 7.7%, and 
gross margin percentage increased 240 basis points during each of the fiscal 
years ended June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, as a result of an increase in 
higher margin BloomNet membership, directory and transaction fees, as well as 
newly implemented transaction fees, offset in part by a reduction in lower 
margin wholesale product revenues. 
 
  41 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased by 159.5% during 
the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, driven 
primarily by the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was 
acquired on September 30, 2014, and strong organic e-commerce growth from 
Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets, partially offset by reduced revenue from Fannie 
May, due to the Thanksgiving Day warehouse fire. 
 
After adjusting for estimated lost gross profit from the warehouse fire of $6.7 
million during the year ended June 28, 2015 and for the impact of Harry & David 
purchase accounting adjustments related to deferred revenue of $1.6 million and 
step-up of inventory to fair value of $4.8 million during the year ended June 
28, 2015, gross profit during the year ended June 28, 2015 increased by 172.0% 
in comparison to fiscal 2014. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, organic 
gross profit, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the warehouse fire, 
increased 9.7% during the year ended June 28, 2015. Gross margin percentage 
increased 270 basis points during the year ended June 28, 2015 to 44.4% as a 
result of the Harry & David acquisition, which earns higher margins due to its 
vertically integrated operations, and due to the timing of the acquisition 
which excluded the first quarter of Harry & David's operations which carries a 
lower gross margin due to the seasonality of its business, as well as 
productivity improvements across all brands within the segment. After adjusting 
for the estimated lost gross profit from the warehouse fire for the year ended 
June 28, 2015 and for the impact of Harry & David purchase accounting 
adjustments related to deferred revenue and step-up of inventory to fair value 
for year ended June 28, 2015, pro forma gross margin percentage increased 350 
basis points to 45.2%. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Harry & 
David, organic gross margin percentage, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue 
from the warehouse fire, increased 70 basis points to 42.4% during the year 
ended June 28, 2015. The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit 
increased by 6.3% during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 in comparison to 
fiscal 2013 due to revenue increases, as well as through gross margin expansion 
of 110 basis points due to the operational improvements implemented at Fannie 
May, as well as manufacturing and production efficiencies, partially offset by 
promotional offers and customer service issues resulting from the inclement 
weather during the year. 
 
For fiscal 2016, the Company expects its gross margin percentage will improve 
in comparison to fiscal 2015 as a result of improvements in product sourcing, 
supply chain and manufacturing efficiencies. 
 
Marketing and Sales Expense 
 
 
 
                    Years Ended 
                    June 28,    %        June 29,    %        June 30, 
 
                    2015        Change   2014        Change   2013 
                    (dollars in thousands) 
Marketing and sales $ 299,801     53.9 % $ 194,847      4.4 % $ 186,720 
Percentage of sales      26.7 %               25.8 %               25.4 % 
  

 
Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional 
expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and 
fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and 
customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the 
Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising 
activities. 
 
During the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, marketing and sales expenses 
increased 53.9% in comparison to the prior year primarily as a result of the 
incremental spend due to the acquisitions of Harry & David on September 30, 
2014, as well as higher labor and facility costs associated with an increase in 
Fannie May store count. The increase in marketing and sales as a percentage of 
net revenues during the year ended June 28, 2015 was due to the impact of the 
Harry & David acquisitions, combined with the impact of the warehouse fire. 
Excluding the impact of the acquisitions, organic marketing and sales as a 
percentage of net revenues, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the 
warehouse fire, was 25.9% during the year ended June 28, 2015, comparable with 
the prior year. During the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014, marketing and sales 
expenses increased 4.4% compared to the prior year, as a result of: (i) 
increased advertising programs implemented by the 1-800-Flowers.com brand in 
order to spur demand, (ii) the impact of the acquisition of iFlorist, and (iii) 
higher labor due to increase in service center costs in order to improve 
service levels and handle increased service calls caused by the severe weather 
during the year. Although this increase in advertising drove incremental 
volume, as a result of the severe winter weather, culminating with the 
Valentine blizzard, as well as lackluster consumer demand, marketing and sales 
expense, as a percentage of net revenues, increased from 25.4% in fiscal 2013 
to 25.8% in fiscal 2014. 
 
  42 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
During the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, the Company added approximately 4.6 
million (2.6 million excluding the customers of the Harry & David acquisition 
on September 30, 2014) new e-commerce customers, compared to 2.4 million in 
fiscal 2014 and 2.3 million in fiscal 2013. Excluding the Harry & David 
customers, approximately 48% of customers who placed e-commerce orders during 
fiscal 2015 were repeat customers compared to 49% in fiscal 2014. 
 
Technology and Development Expense 
 
 
 
                           Years Ended 
                           June 28,   %        June 29,   %        June 30, 
 
                           2015       Change   2014       Change   2013 
                           (dollars in thousands) 
Technology and development   34,745     54.3 % $ 22,518      3.8 % $ 21,700 
Percentage of sales             3.1 %               3.0 %               3.0 % 
  

 
Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating 
expenses of the Company's information technology group, costs associated with 
its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance 
and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, 
fulfillment and database systems. 
 
Technology and development expenses increased 54.3% during the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 compared to the prior year due to the technology and 
development costs of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. 
Technology spend as a percentage of net revenues increased to 3.1% during the 
fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, compared to the prior year. Excluding the 
impact of acquisitions, organic technology and development expense as a 
percentage of net revenues, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the 
warehouse fire, was 3.0% during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. During the 
fiscal year ended June 29, 2014, technology and development expense increased 
by 3.8% compared to the prior year, as a result of increased 
license/maintenance costs to support the Company's IT infrastructure, as well 
as restructuring costs incurred to realign personnel to accommodate the launch 
of the Company's new multi-branded portal during fiscal 2015. 
 
During the fiscal years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
the Company expended $52.1 million, $36.6 million and $37.3 million, 
respectively, on technology and development, of which $17.4 million, $14.1 
million, and $15.6 million, respectively, has been capitalized. 
 
General and Administrative Expense 
 
 
 
                           Years Ended 
                           June 28,   %        June 29,   %        June 30, 
 
                           2015       Change   2014       Change   2013 
                           (dollars in thousands) 
General and administrative $ 85,908     56.9 % $ 54,754      4.9 % $ 52,188 
Percentage of sales             7.7 %               7.2 %               7.1 % 
  

 
General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in 
support of the Company's executive, finance and accounting, legal, human 
resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and 
other general corporate expenses. 
 
General and administrative expense increased by 56.9% during the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, as a result of incremental 
general and administrative expense of Harry & David, acquired on September 30, 
2014, and the related acquisition and integration expenses of $9.6 million 
during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. Excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, organic general and administrative expense as a percentage of net 
revenues, adjusted for the estimated lost revenue from the warehouse fire, was 
7.2% during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. General and administrative 
expense increased by 4.9% during fiscal 2014, compared to the prior year, as a 
result of increased health care costs and worker's compensation claims, bad 
debt expense, and annual compensation rate increases, partially offset by 
decreases in performance based bonuses. 
 
  43 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Depreciation and Amortization 
 
 
 
                              Years Ended 
                              June 28,   %        June 29,   %        June 30, 
 
                              2015       Change   2014       Change   2013 
                              (dollars in thousands) 
Depreciation and amortization $ 29,124     46.7 % $ 19,848      5.6 % $ 18,798 
Percentage of sales                2.6 %               2.6 %               2.6 % 
  

 
Depreciation and amortization expense increased by 46.7% during the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, as a result of the 
incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of Harry & David, acquired 
on September 30, 2014, including the impact of the additional intangibles 
amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by 5.6% during 
the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, as a result of 
incremental expenses associated with the acquisition of iFlorist, as well as 
increased capital spending, including technology upgrades. 
 
Interest Expense and other, net 
 
 
 
                                Years Ended 
                                June 28, %        June 29, %        June 30, 
 
                                2015     Change   2014     Change   2013 
                                (dollars in thousands) 
Interest expense and other, net  $ 7,303  438.2 %  $ 1,357   36.9 %    $ 991 
  

 
Interest expense and other, net consists primarily of interest expense and 
amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company's credit 
facility, net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances, as 
well as investment income by the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation 
Plan, its equity interest in Flores Online, and foreign currency transaction 
gains and losses for the Company's iFlorist subsidiary. 
 
In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the 
Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), 
consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a 
maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit 
facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 
to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable 
sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 
quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, 
with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% 
in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of 
$42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company 
borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under 
the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay 
acquisition-related transaction costs. 
 
Interest expense and other, net increased 438.2% during the fiscal year ended 
June 28, 2015 in comparison to the prior year, as a result of the additional 
interest expense associated with the Term Loan used to finance the acquisition, 
related working capital requirements of Harry & David, as well as losses on the 
sale of the Company's Fine Stationery ($0.5 million) and Pingg ($0.6 million) 
brands during June 2015. Interest expense and other, net increased during the 
fiscal year ended June 29, 2014 in comparison to fiscal 2013, due to losses 
from its equity interest in Flores Online, partially offset by decreases in 
interest expense on the Company's credit facility as a result of net reduction 
in borrowings outstanding during the period, and increases in investment income 
in the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan. 
 
  44 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Income Taxes 
 
During the fiscal years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
the Company recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $10.9 
million, $8.4 million and $9.1 million, respectively, resulting in an effective 
tax rate of 36.1%, 37.6% and 36.6%, respectively. The Company's effective tax 
rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the 
impact of state income taxes, valuation allowance changes, rate differences and 
tax settlements, partially offset by various tax credits/deductions as well as 
deductible stock-based compensation. 
 
At June 28, 2015 the Company's federal net operating loss carryforwards were 
$2.5 million, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in fiscal year 2025. 
The federal net operating loss is subject to Section 382 limitations of $0.3 
million per year. The Company's foreign net operating loss carryforward was 
$7.5 million, while the state net operating losses were $6.2 million, before 
federal benefit, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in fiscal year 
2016. 
 
Discontinued Operations 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
e-commerce and procurement businesses on December 31, 2013. The Company had 
originally estimated a loss of $2.3 million ($1.5 million, net of tax), which 
was provided for during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, but the loss was 
reduced to $1.0 million, upon finalization of terms and closing on the sale. As 
a result, the Company reversed $1.3 million ($0.8 million, net of tax) of its 
accrual for the estimated loss during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014. The 
Company has classified the results of the e-commerce and procurement business 
of The Winetasting Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 
2014 and 2013. 
 
Results for discontinued operations are as follows: 
 
 
 
                                                              Years Ended 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29,2014 June 30, 2013 
                                                (in thousands, except per share data) 
Net revenues from discontinued operations                          $ 1,669       $ 5,154 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                       $ (86)     $ (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations,                      $ 815     $ (1,512) 
net of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations                           $ 729     $ (3,401) 
  

 
  45 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Quarterly Results of Operations 
 
The following table provides unaudited quarterly consolidated results of 
operations for each quarter of fiscal years 2015 and 2014. The Company believes 
this unaudited information has been prepared substantially on the same basis as 
the annual audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary 
adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, have been 
included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the Company's results of 
operations. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily 
indicative of the operating results for any future period. 
 
 
 
                    Jun. 28,   Mar. 29,   Dec. 28,  Sep. 28,  Jun. 29,  Mar. 30,  Dec. 29,  Sep. 29, 
 
                    2015       2015       2014      2014      2014      2014      2013      2013 
                    (in thousands, except per share data) 
Net revenues: 
E-commerce           $ 178,830  $ 177,903 $ 409,082  $ 84,038 $ 148,083 $ 139,918 $ 180,095  $ 80,880 
(telephonic/online) 
Other                   49,461     54,334   125,193    42,665    39,286    39,673    86,242    42,168 
Total net revenues     228,291    232,237   534,275   126,703   187,369   179,591   266,337   123,048 
Cost of revenues       130,156    136,915   293,850    73,390   107,513   106,048   155,360    71,751 
Gross profit            98,135     95,322   240,425    53,313    79,856    73,543   110,977    51,297 
Operating expenses: 
Marketing and sales     71,629     70,574   122,026    35,572    51,131    51,581    57,656    34,479 
Technology and           9,427     10,389     9,329     5,600     5,756     6,045     5,319     5,398 
development 
General and             23,910     22,772    25,558    13,668    12,810    13,865    14,267    13,812 
administrative 
Depreciation and         7,519      7,825     8,679     5,101     5,191     4,932     5,036     4,689 
amortization 
Total operating        112,485    111,560   165,592    59,941    74,888    76,423    82,278    58,378 
expenses 
Operating income      (14,350)   (16,238)    74,833   (6,628)     4,968   (2,880)    28,699   (7,081) 
(loss) 
Interest expense         2,281      1,631     2,638       753       398       249       418       292 
and other, net 
Income (loss) from    (16,631)   (17,869)    72,195   (7,381)     4,570   (3,129)    28,281   (7,373) 
continuing 
operations before 
income taxes 
Income tax expense     (5,866)    (7,056)    26,655   (2,803)     1,813   (1,391)    10,798   (2,816) 
(benefit) 
Income (loss) from    (10,765)   (10,813)    45,540   (4,578)     2,757   (1,738)    17,483   (4,557) 
continuing 
operations 
Income (loss) from           -          -         -         -       295        75     (374)      (82) 
discontinued 
operations, net of 
tax 
Gain (loss) on sale          -          -         -         -         -      (62)       877         - 
of discontinued 
operations, net of 
tax 
Income (loss) from           -          -         -         -       295        13       503      (82) 
discontinued 
operations, net of 
tax 
Net income (loss)     (10,765)   (10,813)    45,540   (4,578)     3,052   (1,725)    17,986   (4,639) 
Less: Net loss            (26)      (318)     (231)     (328)     (356)     (300)      (41)         - 
attributable to 
noncontrolling 
interest 
Net income (loss)   $ (10,739) $ (10,495)  $ 45,771 $ (4,250)   $ 3,408 $ (1,425)  $ 18,027 $ (4,639) 
attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Basic net income 
(loss) per common 
share attributable 
to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
From continuing       $ (0.16)   $ (0.16)    $ 0.71  $ (0.07)    $ 0.05  $ (0.02)    $ 0.27  $ (0.07) 
operations 
From discontinued            -          -         -         -    $ 0.00    $ 0.00    $ 0.01    $ 0.00 
operations 
Basic net income      $ (0.16)   $ (0.16)    $ 0.71  $ (0.07)    $ 0.05  $ (0.02)    $ 0.28  $ (0.07) 
per common share 
Diluted net income 
(loss) per common 
share attributable 
to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
From continuing       $ (0.16)   $ (0.16)    $ 0.68  $ (0.07)    $ 0.05  $ (0.02)    $ 0.27  $ (0.07) 
operations 
From discontinued            -          -         -         -    $ 0.00    $ 0.00    $ 0.01    $ 0.00 
operations 
Diluted net income    $ (0.16)   $ (0.16)    $ 0.68  $ (0.07)    $ 0.05  $ (0.02)    $ 0.27  $ (0.07) 
per common share 
Weighted average 
shares used in the 
calculation of net 
income (loss) per 
common share: 
Basic                   65,188     64,909    64,443    63,948    64,112    64,214    64,016    63,799 
Diluted                 65,188     64,909    67,061    63,948    66,157    64,214    66,095    63,799 
  

 
The Company's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to 
the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into 
non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David on September 
30, 2014, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within 
the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 56% of the 
Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the 
number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's 
Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the 
Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first 
quarter. The Easter Holiday, which was on April 20th in fiscal 2014, fell on 
April 5th in fiscal 2015. As a result of the timing of Easter, during fiscal 
2015 a portion of revenue and EBITDA associated with the Easter Holiday shifted 
into the Company's fiscal third quarter, from its fiscal fourth quarter of 
fiscal 2014. There will be a further shift of revenue and EBITDA as Easter 
falls on March 27th in fiscal 2016. 
 
  46 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
Cash Flows 
 
At June 28, 2015, the Company had working capital of $36.4 million, including 
cash and cash equivalents of $27.9 million, compared to working capital of 
$17.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $5.2 million, at June 29, 
2014. 
 
Net cash provided by operating activities of $125.7 million for the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 was primarily related to net income, adjusted for non-cash 
charges for depreciation and amortization, the write-off of inventory related 
to the warehouse fire and stock-based compensation, cash provided by changes in 
inventory, including the impact related to the timing of the acquisition of 
Harry & David when inventory was coming to its peak production level, prepaid 
items and trade receivables, partially offset by the establishment of an 
insurance receivable related to the fire, and decreases in accounts payable and 
accrued expenses. 
 
Net cash used in investing activities of $163.6 million was primarily 
attributable to the acquisition of Harry & David on September 30, 2014 for 
$142.5 million ($132.0 million, net of cash acquired), capital expenditures 
related to the Company's technology infrastructure, and the completion of the 
building expansion of Cheryl's bakery business to accommodate growth of the 
Company's cookie and brownie product line. 
 
Net cash provided by financing activities of $60.6 million for the fiscal year 
ended June 28, 2015 was attributable to borrowings under the Company's 2014 
Credit Facility used to finance the $142.5 million acquisition of Harry & David 
on September 30, 2014, offset by repayment of the Harry & David's existing 
revolving credit facility borrowings of $62.4 million, debt issuance costs, and 
the acquisition of $8.4 million of treasury stock. As of June 28, 2015 there 
were no borrowings outstanding under the Company's Revolver. 
 
Credit Facility 
 
In order to finance the acquisition of Harry & David, on September 30, 2014, 
the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), 
consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a 
maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit 
facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 
to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable 
sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 
quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, 
with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% 
in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of 
$42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company 
borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under 
the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay 
acquisition-related transaction costs. 
 
The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the 
Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including 
the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 
Credit Facility will bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) 
LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's 
leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 
Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company 
and the Subsidiary Guarantors. 
 
  47 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that 
cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2014 Credit 
Facility will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature 
of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral 
products, including the acquisition of Harry & David, the Thanksgiving through 
Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal 
quarter, is expected to generate nearly 56% of the Company's annual revenues, 
and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company expects to generate 
significant cash from operations during its second quarter, and then utilize 
that cash for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, 
after which time the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund 
pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases. Borrowings under the 
Revolver typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from 
operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season are expected to enable 
the Company to repay working capital borrowings prior to the end of December. 
 
Stock Repurchase Program 
 
The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made 
from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated 
transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is 
financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company's Board of 
Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. 
The Company repurchased a total of $8.4 million (1,056,038 shares), $8.3 
million (1,561,206 shares) and $9.6 million (2,490,065 shares) during the 
fiscal years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively, under this program. As of June 28, 2015, $27.3 million remains 
authorized under the plan. 
 
Contractual Obligations 
 
At June 28, 2015, the Company's contractual obligations from continuing 
operations consist of: 
 
 
 
                    Payments due by period 
                    (in thousands) 
                    Total     Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 
                                                                       years 
Long-term debt      $ 140,260         $ 17,087    $ 44,985    $ 78,188            - 
obligations 
(including 
interest) 
Operating lease     $ 135,937         $ 24,338    $ 36,919    $ 22,485     $ 52,195 
obligations 
Purchase               88,527           83,669       3,328       1,380          150 
commitments (*) 
Total               $ 364,724        $ 125,094    $ 85,232   $ 102,053     $ 52,345 
  

 
(*) Purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory and equipment purchase 
orders made in the ordinary course of business. 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
 
The Company's discussion and analysis of its financial position and results of 
operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial 
statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, 
management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue 
recognition, inventory and long-lived assets, including goodwill and other 
intangible assets related to acquisitions. Management bases its estimates and 
judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form 
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and 
liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different 
assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical 
accounting policies, among others, affect its more significant judgments and 
estimates used in preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 
 
Revenue Recognition 
 
Net revenues are generated by e-commerce operations from the Company's online 
and telephonic sales channels as well as other operations (retail/wholesale) 
and primarily consist of the selling price of merchandise, service or outbound 
shipping charges, net of discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues are 
recognized primarily upon product delivery and do not include sales tax. Net 
revenues generated by the Company's BloomNet Wire Service operations include 
membership fees as well as other products and service offerings to florists. 
Membership fees are recognized monthly in the period earned, and products sales 
are recognized upon product shipment with shipping terms primarily FOB shipping 
point. 
 
  48 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Initial franchise fees are recognized in income when the Company has 
substantially performed or satisfied all material services or conditions 
relating to the sale of the franchise and the fees are nonrefundable. Area 
development fees are nonrefundable and are recognized in income on a pro-rata 
basis when the conditions for revenue recognition under the individual area 
development agreements are met. Both initial franchise fees and area 
development fees are generally recognized upon the opening of a franchise store 
or upon termination of the agreement between the Company and the franchisee. 
 
Accounts Receivable 
 
The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses 
resulting from the inability of its customers or franchisees to make required 
payments. In establishing the appropriate provisions for customer receivable 
balances, the Company makes assumptions with respect to their future 
collectability. The Company's assumptions are based on an assessment of a 
customer's credit quality as well as subjective factors and trends, including 
the aging of receivable balances. Once the Company considers the factors above, 
an appropriate provision is made, which takes into account the severity of the 
likely loss on the outstanding receivable balance based on the Company's 
experience in collecting these amounts. If the financial condition of the 
Company's customers or franchisees were to deteriorate, resulting in an 
impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be 
required. 
 
Inventory 
 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, 
first-out method of accounting. The Company also records an inventory 
obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the 
inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on various product sales 
projections. This reserve is determined by analyzing inventory skus based on 
age, expiration, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted 
sales. In addition, and as necessary, the Company may establish specific 
reserves for future known or anticipated events. 
 
Business Combinations 
 
The Company accounts for business combinations in accordance with ASC Topic 805 
which requires, among other things, the acquiring entity in a business 
combination to recognize the fair value of all the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed; the recognition of acquisition-related costs in the 
consolidated results of operations; the recognition of restructuring costs in 
the consolidated results of operations for which the acquirer becomes obligated 
after the acquisition date; and contingent purchase consideration to be 
recognized at their fair values on the acquisition date with subsequent 
adjustments recognized in the consolidated results of operations. The fair 
values assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired are determined 
primarily by using an income approach which is based on assumptions and 
estimates made by management. Significant assumptions utilized in the income 
approach are based on company specific information and projections which are 
not observable in the market and are therefore considered Level 3 measurements. 
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identified assets 
and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Operating results of the acquired 
entity are reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements from 
date of acquisition. 
 
Goodwill 
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the 
net assets acquired in each business combination, with the carrying value of 
the Company's goodwill allocated to its reporting units, in accordance with the 
acquisition method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but it is subject 
to an annual assessment for impairment, which the Company performs during the 
fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such 
that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. 
 
  49 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. The 
Company identifies its reporting units by assessing whether the components of 
its operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial 
information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly 
reviews the operating results of those components. Goodwill impairment testing 
involves a two-step process. The first step requires comparison of the fair 
value of each of the reporting units to the respective carrying value. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit is less than the fair value, no impairment 
exists and the second step is not performed. If the carrying value of the 
reporting unit is higher than the fair value, the second step must be performed 
to compute the amount of the goodwill impairment, if any. In the second step, 
the impairment is computed by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting 
unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount 
of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. 
 
The Company generally estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using an 
equal weighting of the income and market approaches. The Company uses industry 
accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by 
various levels of management and, in certain instances, the Company engages 
third-party valuation specialists. Under the income approach, the Company uses 
a discounted cash flow methodology which requires management to make 
significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross 
profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual 
growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market 
approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method. Under this 
method the Company utilizes information from comparable publicly traded 
companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the 
reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the 
operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, in order to obtain 
their respective fair values. The Company also reconciles the aggregate fair 
values of its reporting units determined in the first step (as described above) 
to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control 
premium. 
 
Based on the goodwill impairment test performed during the fourth quarter of 
fiscal 2015, the estimated fair value of the Company's reporting units 
significantly exceeded their respective carrying value (including goodwill 
allocated to each respective reporting unit). Future changes in the estimates 
and assumptions above could materially affect the results of our reviews for 
impairment of goodwill. However, as a measure of sensitivity, a 45% decrease in 
the fair value of the Company's reporting units as of June 28, 2015, would have 
had no impact on the carrying value of the Company's goodwill. In addition, a 
decrease of 100 basis points in our terminal (perpetual) growth rate or an 
increase of 100 basis points in our weighted-average cost of capital would 
still result in a fair value calculation exceeding our book value for each of 
our reporting units. 
 
Other Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets 
 
Other intangibles consist of definite-lived intangible assets (such as 
investment in licenses, customer lists, and others) and indefinite-lived 
intangible assets (such as acquired trade names and trademarks). The cost of 
definite-lived intangible assets is amortized to reflect the pattern of 
economic benefits consumed, over the estimated periods benefited, ranging from 
3 to 16 years, while indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. 
 
Long-lived assets, such as definite-lived intangibles and property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. When such 
events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed 
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual 
disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected 
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then an impairment 
charge would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair 
value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 
 
The Company tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least 
annually, during the fourth quarter, or whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. The 
impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating 
a fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair 
value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, 
impairment is recognized for the difference. To determine fair value of other 
indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company uses an income approach, the 
relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a 
third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to 
use the comparable asset. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets' fair values 
require significant judgments in determining both the assets' estimated cash 
flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those 
cash flows to determine fair value. 
 
  50 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Based on the indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test performed 
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, the estimated fair value of the 
Company's intangibles exceeded their respective carrying value. Future changes 
in the estimates and assumptions above could materially affect the results of 
our reviews for impairment of intangibles. 
 
Income Taxes 
 
The Company uses the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. 
The Company has established deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary 
differences between the financial reporting bases and the income tax bases of 
its assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when 
such assets or liabilities are realized or settled. The Company recognizes as a 
deferred tax asset, the tax benefits associated with losses related to 
operations. Realization of these deferred tax assets assumes that we will be 
able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that these assets will be 
realized. The factors that the Company considers in assessing the likelihood of 
realization include the forecast of future taxable income and available tax 
planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax 
assets. 
 
The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if 
it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on 
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the 
position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a 
particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a 
greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The amount of 
unrecognized tax benefits ("UTBs") is adjusted as appropriate for changes in 
facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, 
new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information 
obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We 
recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to 
UTBs in income tax expense. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are 
required in determining if the "more likely than not" standard has been met 
when developing the provision for income taxes. 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees 
Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help 
entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software 
license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service 
contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of 
ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially 
modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's 
fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. We are currently evaluating the potential 
impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation 
of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest - Imputation of 
Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU 
No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt 
liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that 
debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This 
presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which 
states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect 
reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest 
rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not 
assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is 
effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be 
applied retrospectively. 
 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue 
recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. 
Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of 
revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This 
guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018 
and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the potential 
impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, "Reporting Discontinued 
Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity," which 
amends ASC 205, "Presentation of Financial Statements," and ASC 360, "Property, 
Plant, and Equipment." ASU No. 2014-08 amends the requirements for reporting 
discontinued operations and requires additional disclosures about discontinued 
operations. Under the new guidance, only disposals representing a strategic 
shift in operations or that have a major effect on the Company's operations and 
financial results should be presented as discontinued operations. This new 
accounting guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 3, 
2016, and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the 
potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial 
statements. 
 
  51 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, "Presentation of an Unrecognized 
Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a 
Tax Credit Carryforward Exists," which amends ASC 740, "Income Taxes." The 
amendments provide guidance on the financial statement presentation of an 
unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of a deferred tax asset or as a 
liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or a tax 
credit carryforward exists. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and 
interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013 and may 
be applied on either a prospective or retrospective basis. The provisions are 
effective for the Company's first quarter of fiscal year ending June 28, 2015. 
The adoption of these provisions did not have a significant impact on the 
Company's consolidated financial statements. 
 
  52 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  

 
 
 
(1) The Company's earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to 
    changes in interest rates primarily from its investment of available cash 
    balances in money market funds and investment grade corporate and U.S. 
    government securities, as well as from outstanding debt. In order to 
    finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company 
    entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative 
    agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a 
    $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date 
    of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the 
    "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 
    million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable 
    sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 
    quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 
    2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one 
    and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the 
    remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the 
    acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to 
    repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous 
    credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction 
    costs. 
  

 
As of June 28, 2015, the Company had $131.8 million outstanding under its 2014 
Credit Facility. 
 
The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes, 
but rather, on occasion, to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
The Company has managed its floating rate debt using interest rate swaps in 
order to reduce its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates on its 
consolidated results of operations and future cash outflows for interest. 
 
In July 2009, the Company entered into a $45.0 million notional amount swap 
agreement that exchanges a variable interest rate (LIBOR) for a 1.92% fixed 
rate of interest over the term of the agreement. This swap matured on July 25, 
2012. The Company had designated this swap as a cash flow hedge of the interest 
rate risk attributable to forecasted variable interest (LIBOR) payments. The 
effective portion of the after tax fair value gains or losses on this swap was 
included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company 
did not have any open derivative positions at June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014. 
 
 
 
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  

 
Annual Financial Statements: See Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K. 
 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data: See Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  

 
N/A 
 
 
 
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  

 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 
The Company's management, with the participation of the Company's Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness 
of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of June 28, 
2015. Based on that evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer have each concluded that the Company's disclosure controls 
and procedures were effective as of June 28, 2015. 
 
  53 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal 
control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is 
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act as a process 
designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company's principal executive and 
principal financial officers and effectuated by the Company's board of 
directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), and includes those policies and 
procedures that: 
 
 
 
679; pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
     accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
     assets of the Company; 
  

 
 
 
679; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
     to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. 
     GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made in 
     accordance with authorization of management and directors of the Company; 
     and 
  

 
 
 
679; provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
     unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that 
     could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  

 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting 
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of 
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
 
Management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over 
financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal 
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), (the COSO criteria). 
Based on this assessment, management concluded that the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting was effective as of June 28, 2015. Management 
has excluded the September 30, 2014 acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. 
from its assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as permitted 
in the year of acquisition under Securities and Exchange Commission guidance. 
Harry & David constituted approximately 32% of the Company's total assets as of 
June 28, 2015 and contributed approximately 32% of the Company's total net 
revenues for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. 
 
The Company's independent registered public accounting firm, BDO USA, LLP, 
audited the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial 
reporting as of June 28, 2015. BDO USA, LLP's report on the effectiveness of 
the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 28, 2015 is 
set forth below. 
 
  54 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders 
 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. 
 
Carle Place, NY 
 
We have audited 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries' (the "Company") 
internal control over financial reporting as of June 28, 2015, based on 
criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued 
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the 
COSO criteria). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining 
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of 
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the 
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control 
over financial reporting based on our audit. 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all 
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal 
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of 
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing 
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We 
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control 
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management 
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements. 
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting 
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
 
Q95; 
 
As indicated in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over 
Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the 
internal controls of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David"), which was 
acquired on September 30, 2014, and which is included in the consolidated 
balance sheets of 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 28, 2015, 
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. Harry & David 
constituted approximately 32% of the Company's total assets as of June 28, 2015 
and contributed approximately 32% of the Company's total net revenues for the 
fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. Management did not assess the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting of Harry & David because of the 
timing of the acquisition which was completed on September 30, 2014. Our audit 
of internal control over financial reporting of 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and 
subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over 
financial reporting of Harry & David. 
 
In our opinion, 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all 
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 
June 28, 2015, based on the COSO criteria. 
 
  55 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, 
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years then ended and our 
report dated September 11, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 
 /s/ BDO USA, LLP 
 
Melville, New York 
 
September 11, 2015 
 
  56 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
  

 
None. 
 
PART III 
 
 
 
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  

 
The information to be set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2015 annual 
meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
The Company maintains a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is 
applicable to all directors, officers and employees on the Investor 
Relations-Corporate Governance tab of the Company's website at 
www.1800flowers.com. Any amendment or waiver to the Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers will be posted 
on our website or in a report filed with the SEC on Form 8-K to the extent 
required by applicable law or the regulations of any exchange applicable to the 
Company. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available without 
charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., 
One Old Country Road, Suite 500, Carle Place, New York 11514. 
 
 
 
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  

 
The information to be set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
 
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
         MATTERS 
  

 
The information to be set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
 
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  

 
The information to be set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
 
Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
  

 
The information to be set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
  57 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
PART IV 
 
 
 
Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  

 
(a) (1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: 
 
 
 
                                                                                           Page 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms                                   F-1 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014                          F-3 
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014, and    F-4 
June 30, 2013 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended June 28, 2015, June    F-5 
29, 2014, and June 30, 2013 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended June 28, 2015, June    F-6 
29, 2014, and June 30, 2013 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014,    F-7 
and June 30, 2013 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                 F-8 
  

 
(a) (2) Index to Financial Statement Schedules: 
 
 
 
Schedule II- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S-1 
  

 
All other information and financial statement schedules are omitted because 
they are not applicable, or required, or because the required information is 
included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
 
(a) (3) Index to Exhibits 
 
Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are incorporated by reference to exhibits 
or appendices previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as 
indicated by the reference in brackets. All other exhibits are filed herewith. 
Exhibits 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.10, 10.11, 10.13, 10.14, 10.15 10.16, 
10.17, 10.21, 10.22 and 10.23 are management contracts or compensatory plans or 
arrangements. 
 
 
 
Exhibit Description 
*3.1    Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (Registration 
        Statement on Form S-1/A (No. 333-78985) filed on July 9, 1999, Exhibit 
        3.1) 
*3.2    Amendment No. 1 to Third Amended and Restated Certificate of 
        Incorporation. (Registration Statement on Form S-1/A (No. 333-78985) 
        filed on July 22, 1999, Exhibit 3.2) 
*3.3    Amended and Restated By-laws. (Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No 
        333-78985) filed on May 21, 1999, Exhibit 3.3) 
*4.1    Specimen Class A common stock certificate. (Registration Statement on 
        Form S-1/A (No. 333-78985 filed on July 9, 1999, Exhibit 4.1) 
*4.2    See Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 for provisions of the Certificate of 
        Incorporation and By-laws of the Registrant defining the rights of 
        holders of Common Stock of the Registrant. 
*10.4   (Reserved) 
*10.5   Employment Agreement, effective as of July 1, 1999, between James F. 
        McCann and 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (Form S-1/A (No. 333-78985) filed on 
        July 9, 1999, Exhibit 10.19) 
*10.6   Amendment dated December 3, 2008 to Employment Agreement between James 
        F. McCann and 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
        filed on February 6, 2009, Exhibit 10.1) 
*10.7   Employment Agreement, effective as of July 1, 1999, between Christopher 
        G. McCann and 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (Form S-1/A (No. 333-78985) filed 
        on July 9, 1999, Exhibit 10.20) 
*10.8   Amendment dated December 3, 2008 to Employment Agreement between 
        Christopher G. McCann and 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (Quarterly Report on 
        Form 10-Q filed on February 6, 2009, Exhibit 10.2) 
*10.9   2003 Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan (as amended and restated 
        as of October 22, 2009 and amended as of October 28, 2011) (Definitive 
        Proxy filed on October 31, 2011 (No 111168049, Annex A)) 
*10.10  Section 16 Executive Officer's Bonus Plan (as amended and restated as 
        of October 22, 2009) (Definitive Proxy filed on October 23, 2009 (No. 
        000-26841), Annex B) 
*10.11  Employment Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2006, by and among 
        1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., Fannie May Confections Brands, Inc. and David 
        Taiclet. (Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 
        2005 filed on September 15, 2006, Exhibit 10.8) 
  

 
  58 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
*10.12  Lease, dated May 20, 2005, between Treeline Mineola, LLC and 
        1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
        ended July 3, 2005 filed on September 15, 2005, Exhibit 10.26) 
*10.13  Offer letter to Julie McCann Mulligan (Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
        the fiscal year ended June 28, 2009 filed on September 11, 2009, 
        Exhibit 10.12) 
*10.14  Offer letter to Stephen Bozzo (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on 
        November 8, 2007, Exhibit 10.4). 
*10.15  Form of Restricted Share Agreement under 2003 Long Term Incentive and 
        Share Award Plan. (Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
        June 29, 2008 filed on September 12, 2008, Exhibit 10.15) 
*10.16  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under 2003 Long Term Incentive 
        and Share Award Plan. (Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
        ended June 29, 2008 filed on September 12, 2008, Exhibit 10.16) 
*10.17  Form of Non-statutory Stock Option Agreement under 2003 Long Term 
        Incentive and Share Award Plan. (Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
        fiscal year ended June 29, 2008 filed on September 12, 2008, Exhibit 
        10.17) 
*10.18  Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 16, 2010 
        among 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc, The Subsidiary Borrowers Party thereto, 
        The Guarantors Party thereto, The Lenders Party thereto and J.P. Morgan 
        Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. (Current Report on Form 8-K 
        filed on April 23, 2010, Exhibit 99.2) 
*10.19  Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 10, 2013 
        among 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc., The Subsidiary Borrowers Party thereto, 
        The Guarantors Party thereto, The Lenders Party thereto and J.P. Morgan 
        Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. (Current Report on Form 8-K 
        filed on April 11, 2013, Exhibit 99.2) 
*10.20  Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 2014 among 
        1-800-Flowers.com, Inc., the Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto, and JP 
        Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (Quarterly Report on 
        Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2014, Exhibit 10.24) 
*10.21  Form of Restricted Share Agreement under 2003 Long Term Incentive and 
        Share Award Plan (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on February 10, 
        2012, Exhibit 10.20) 
*10.22  Form of Performance Restricted Share Agreement under 2003 Long Term 
        Incentive and Share Award Plan (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on 
        February 10, 2012, Exhibit 10.21) 
 
*10.23  Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement under 2003 Long Term 
        Incentive and Share Award Plan (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on 
        February 10, 2012, Exhibit 10.22) 
   21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 
   23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
   23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
   31.1 Certification of the principal executive officer pursuant to Section 
        302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
   31.2 Certification of the principal financial officer pursuant to Section 
        302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
   32.1 Certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant 
        to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
101.INS XBRL Instance Document 
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document 
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Document 
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Definition Presentation Document 
  

 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  59 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on 
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
                          By:                /s/ James F. McCann 
                          James F. McCann 
                          Chief Executive Officer 
                          Chairman of the Board of Directors 
                          (Principal Executive Officer) 
  

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated below: 
 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By:          /s/ James F. McCann 
                          James F. McCann 
 
                          Chief Executive Officer 
 
                          Chairman of the Board of 
                          Directors 
 
                          (Principal Executive Officer) 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By:                                /s/ William E. Shea 
                          William E. Shea 
 
                          Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial 
                          Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Christopher G. McCann 
                          Christopher G. McCann 
 
                          Director, President 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Geralyn R. Breig 
                          Geralyn R. Breig 
 
                          Director 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Lawrence Calcano 
                          Lawrence Calcano 
 
                          Director 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ James A. Cannavino 
                          James A. Cannavino 
 
                          Director 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Eugene F. DeMark 
                          Eugene F. DeMark 
 
                          Director 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Leonard J. Elmore 
                          Leonard J. Elmore 
 
                          Director 
  

 
  60 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Sean Hegarty 
                          Sean Hegarty 
 
                          Director 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 By: /s/ Larry Zarin 
                          Larry Zarin 
 
                          Director 
  

 
  61 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders 
 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. 
 
Carle Place, NY 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014 
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. In connection 
with our audits of the financial statements, we have also audited the financial 
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index for the years ended June 
28, 2015 and June 29, 2014. These consolidated financial statements and 
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and 
schedules based on our audits. 
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit 
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements 
and schedules. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our 
opinion. 
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 1-800-Flowers.com, 
Inc. and subsidiaries at June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, and the results of 
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended, in 
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States 
of America. 
 
Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and 
subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of June 28, 2015, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) and our report dated September 11, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion 
thereon. 
 
/s/ BDO USA, LLP 
 
Melville, New York 
 
September 11, 2015 
 
  F-1 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of June 30, 2013, and 
the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flow for the year then ended. Our audit also 
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) for 
the year ended June 30, 2013. These financial statements and schedule are the 
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audit. 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes 
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our 
audit provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in 
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries at June 30, 2013, and the consolidated 
results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in 
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our 
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation 
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all 
material respects the information set forth therein. 
 
/s/Ernst & Young LLP 
 
Jericho, New York 
 
September 13, 2013 
 
  F-2 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 
(in thousands, except share data) 
 
 
 
                                                             June 28,  June 29, 
 
                                                             2015      2014 
Assets 
Current assets: 
Cash and cash equivalents                                     $ 27,940   $ 5,203 
Receivables, net                                                16,191    13,339 
Insurance receivable                                             2,979         - 
Inventories                                                     93,163    58,520 
Deferred tax assets                                              4,873     5,156 
Prepaid and other                                               14,822     9,600 
Total current assets                                           159,968    91,818 
Property, plant and equipment, net                             170,100    60,147 
Goodwill                                                        77,097    60,166 
Other intangibles, net                                          82,125    44,616 
Deferred tax assets                                                  -     2,002 
Other assets                                                    12,656     8,820 
Total assets                                                 $ 501,946 $ 267,569 
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
Current liabilities: 
Accounts payable                                              $ 35,425  $ 24,447 
Accrued expenses                                                73,639    49,517 
Current maturities of long-term debt                            14,543       343 
Total current liabilities                                      123,607    74,307 
Long-term debt                                                 117,563         - 
Deferred tax liabilities                                        42,680       649 
Other liabilities                                                7,840     6,495 
Total liabilities                                              291,690    81,451 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 17) 
Stockholders' equity: 
Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 10,000,000 shares                   -         - 
authorized, none issued 
Class A common stock, $.01 par value, 200,000,000 shares           429       381 
authorized, 42,875,291 and 38,119,398 shares issued in 2015 
and 2014, respectively 
Class B common stock, $.01 par value, 200,000,000 shares           393       420 
authorized, 39,310,044 and 42,058,594 shares issued in 2015 
and 2014, respectively 
Additional paid-in capital                                     319,108   305,510 
Retained deficit                                              (48,278)  (68,565) 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                             (371)      (46) 
Treasury stock, at cost, 11,874,475 and 10,818,437 Class A    (62,832)  (54,472) 
shares in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and 5,280,000 Class B 
shares in 2015 and 2014 
Total 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. stockholders' equity             208,449   183,228 
Noncontrolling interest in subsidiary                            1,807     2,890 
Total equity                                                   210,256 $ 186,118 
Total liabilities and equity                                 $ 501,946 $ 267,569 
  

 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
  F-3 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
(in thousands, except per share data) 
 
 
 
                                                    Years ended 
                                                    June 28,    June 29,  June 30, 
 
                                                    2015        2014      2013 
Net revenues                                        $ 1,121,506 $ 756,345 $ 735,497 
Cost of revenues                                        634,311   440,672   430,305 
Gross profit                                            487,195   315,673   305,192 
Operating expenses: 
Marketing and sales                                     299,801   194,847   186,720 
Technology and development                               34,745    22,518    21,700 
General and administrative                               85,908    54,754    52,188 
Depreciation and amortization                            29,124    19,848    18,798 
Total operating expenses                                449,578   291,967   279,406 
Operating income                                         37,617    23,706    25,786 
Interest expense and other, net                           7,303     1,357       991 
Income from continuing operations before income          30,314    22,349    24,795 
taxes 
Income tax expense from continuing operations            10,930     8,403     9,073 
Income from continuing operations                        19,384    13,946    15,722 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                 -      (86)   (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net           -       815   (1,512) 
of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of            -       729   (3,401) 
tax 
Net income                                             $ 19,384    14,675    12,321 
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling             (903)     (697)         - 
interest 
Net income attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.     $ 20,287  $ 15,372  $ 12,321 
Basic net income (loss) per common share 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing operations                               $ 0.31    $ 0.23    $ 0.24 
From discontinued operations                             $ 0.00    $ 0.01  $ (0.05) 
Basic net income per common share                        $ 0.31    $ 0.24    $ 0.19 
Diluted net income (loss) per common share 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing operations                               $ 0.30    $ 0.22    $ 0.24 
From discontinued operations                             $ 0.00    $ 0.01  $ (0.05) 
Diluted net income per common share                      $ 0.30    $ 0.23    $ 0.19 
Weighted average shares used in the calculation of 
net income (loss) per common share: 
Basic                                                    64,976    64,035    64,369 
Diluted                                                  67,602    66,460    66,792 
  

 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
  F-4 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
(in thousands) 
 
 
 
                                                             June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                                             2015     2014     2013 
Net income                                                   $ 19,384 $ 14,675 $ 12,321 
Other comprehensive income (loss) (currency translation)        (505)     (75)       17 
Comprehensive income                                           18,879   14,600   12,338 
Less: 
Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest                (903)    (697)        - 
Other comprehensive loss (currency translation) attributable    (180)     (29) 
to noncontrolling interest 
Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest    (1,083)    (726)        - 
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to                  $ 19,962 $ 15,326 $ 12,338 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
  

 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
  F-5 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 
 
Years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 
 
(in thousands, except share data) 
 
 
 
                                                                                                              Total 
               Common Stock                         Additional            Accumulated                         1-800-FLOWERS. 
                                                                          Other                               COM, Inc. 
               Class A           Class B            Paid-in    Retained   Comprehensive Treasury Stock        Stockholders'  Noncontrolling Total 
               Shares     Amount Shares      Amount Capital    Deficit    Loss          Shares     Amount     Equity         Interest       Equity 
Balance at     34,465,207  $ 344  42,138,465  $ 421  $ 293,814 $ (96,258)        $ (17) 12,047,166 $ (36,556)      $ 161,748              - $ 161,748 
July 1, 2012 
Net income              -      -           -      -          -     12,321             -          -          -         12,321              -    12,321 
Change in               -      -           -      -          -          -            17          -          -             17              -        17 
value of cash 
flow hedge 
Conversion of      13,000      -    (13,000)      -          -          -             -          -          -              -              -         - 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock 
Stock-based     1,610,271     16           -      -      4,267          -             -          -          -          4,283              -     4,283 
compensation 
Exercise of       191,947      2           -      -        533          -             -          -          -            535              -       535 
stock options 
Tax asset               -      -           -      -       (34)          -             -          -          -           (34)              -      (34) 
shortfall from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of          -      -           -      -          -          -             -  2,490,065    (9,599)        (9,599)              -   (9,599) 
Class A 
treasury 
stock 
Balance at     36,280,425    362  42,125,465    421    298,580   (83,937)             - 14,537,231   (46,155)        169,271              -   169,271 
June 30, 2013 
Net income              -      -           -      -          -     15,372             -          -          -         15,372          (697)    14,675 
Translation             -      -           -      -          -          -          (46)          -          -           (46)           (29)      (75) 
adjustment 
Conversion of      66,871      1    (66,871)    (1)          -          -             -          -          -              -              -         - 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock 
Stock-based     1,608,052     16           -      -      4,648          -             -          -          -          4,664              -     4,664 
compensation 
Exercise of       164,050      2                           525                                                           527              -       527 
stock options 
Excess tax              -      -           -      -      1,757          -             -          -          -          1,757              -     1,757 
benefit from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of          -      -           -      -          -          -             -  1,561,206    (8,317)        (8,317)              -   (8,317) 
Class A 
treasury 
stock 
Noncontrolling          -      -           -      -          -          -             -          -          -              -          3,616     3,616 
interest 
Balance at     38,119,398    381  42,058,594    420    305,510   (68,565)          (46) 16,098,437   (54,472)        183,228          2,890   186,118 
June 29, 2014 
Net income              -      -           -      -          -     20,287             -          -          -         20,287          (903)    19,384 
Translation             -      -           -      -          -          -         (325)          -          -          (325)          (180)     (505) 
adjustment 
Conversion of   2,748,550     27 (2,748,550)   (27)          -          -             -          -          -              -              -         - 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock 
Stock-based     1,154,173     12           -      -      5,950          -             -          -          -          5,962              -     5,962 
compensation 
Exercise of       853,170      9                         5,533                                                         5,542              -     5,542 
stock options 
Excess tax              -      -           -      -      2,115          -             -          -          -          2,115              -     2,115 
benefit from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of          -      -           -      -          -          -             -  1,056,038    (8,360)        (8,360)              -   (8,360) 
Class A 
treasury 
stock 
Balance at     42,875,291  $ 429  39,310,044  $ 393  $ 319,108 $ (48,278)       $ (371) 17,154,475 $ (62,832)      $ 208,449        $ 1,807 $ 210,256 
June 28, 2015 
  

 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
  F-6 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
(in thousands) 
 
 
 
                                                     Years ended 
                                                     June 28,  June 29,  June 30, 
 
                                                     2015      2014      2013 
Operating activities: 
Net income                                            $ 19,384  $ 14,675 $ 12,321 
Reconciliation of net income to net cash provided by 
operating activities, net of acquisitions: 
Operating activities of discontinued operations              -     1,587    (179) 
Loss/(gain) on sale of discontinued operations               -   (1,300)    2,348 
Depreciation and amortization                           29,124    19,848   18,798 
Amortization of deferred financing costs                 1,501       306      420 
Deferred income taxes                                    2,471     1,454    (811) 
Non-cash impact of write-offs related to warehouse      29,522         -        - 
fire 
Bad debt expense                                         1,295     1,656    1,085 
Stock-based compensation                                 5,962     4,664    4,283 
Excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation       (2,550)   (1,837)    (739) 
Other non-cash items                                     1,439       755      483 
Changes in operating items, excluding the effects of 
acquisitions: 
Receivables                                              8,331   (1,893)  (4,108) 
Insurance receivable                                   (2,979)         -        - 
Inventories                                             26,390   (2,564)  (1,823) 
Prepaid and other                                        8,047       436  (1,655) 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                  (2,235)     2,660    4,368 
Other assets                                           (1,058)     (262)    (609) 
Other liabilities                                        1,089     2,355      463 
Net cash provided by operating activities              125,733    42,539   34,645 
Investing activities: 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired                   (131,994)   (9,000)  (3,700) 
Capital expenditures                                  (32,572)  (22,985) (20,044) 
Other, net                                                 963       (3)    (786) 
Investing activities of discontinued operations              -       500        - 
Net cash used in investing activities                (163,603)  (31,488) (24,530) 
Financing activities: 
Acquisition of treasury stock                          (8,360)   (8,317)  (9,599) 
Excess tax benefit from stock based compensation         2,550     1,837      739 
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock options         5,542       527      535 
Proceeds from bank borrowings                          239,500   127,000   62,000 
Repayment of notes payable and bank borrowings       (172,983) (127,052) (91,250) 
Debt issuance cost                                     (5,642)         -  (1,234) 
Other                                                        -         3      (6) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities     60,607   (6,002) (38,815) 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents                 22,737     5,049 (28,700) 
Cash and cash equivalents: 
Beginning of year                                        5,203       154   28,854 
End of year                                           $ 27,940   $ 5,203    $ 154 
  

 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information: 
 
 
 
- Interest paid amounted to $4.3 million $1.0 million and $1.1 million, for the 
  years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
  

 
 
 
- The Company paid income taxes of approximately $5.1 million, $7.0 million and 
  $8.3 million, net of tax refunds received, for the years ended June 28, 2015, 
  June 29, 2014, and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
  

 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
  F-7 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Note 1. Description of Business 
 
For nearly 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS(R) (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) 
has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every 
occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift 
baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed 
animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee(R) backs every gift. 
 
The Company's BloomNet(R) international floral wire service 
(www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added 
services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses 
profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such 
as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David(R) 
(1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from 
The Popcorn Factory(R) (1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies 
and baked gifts from Cheryl's(R) (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium 
chocolates and confections from Fannie May(R) (www.fanniemay.com and 
www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800-Baskets.com(R) 
(www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from 
Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit 
arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality 
steaks and chops from Stock Yards(R) (www.stockyards.com). 
 
Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies 
 
Basis of Presentation 
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All 
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in 
consolidation. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, approximately 1% and 2%, 
respectively, of consolidated net revenue came from international sources, 
whereas in fiscal 2013 virtually all of the Company's revenues had been derived 
from domestic sources. 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
Winetasting Network business on December 31, 2013. The Company has classified 
the results of the e-commerce and procurement business of The Winetasting 
Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
 
Fiscal Year 
 
The Company's fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending on the Sunday 
nearest to June 30. Fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 consisted of 52 weeks 
which ended on June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
 
Use of Estimates 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of demand deposits with banks, highly liquid 
money market funds, United States government securities, overnight repurchase 
agreements and commercial paper with maturities of three months or less when 
purchased. 
 
Inventories 
 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, 
first-out method of accounting. 
 
  F-8 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and amortization. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line 
method over the assets' estimated useful lives. Amortization of leasehold 
improvements and capital leases is computed using the straight-line method over 
the shorter of the estimated useful lives and the initial lease terms. The 
Company capitalizes certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or 
develop internal-use software. Capitalized software costs are amortized on a 
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software. Orchards in 
production, consisting of direct labor and materials, supervision and other 
items, are capitalized as part of capital projects in progress - orchards until 
the orchards produce fruit in commercial quantities. Upon attaining commercial 
levels of production the capital investments in these orchards are recorded as 
land improvements. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed, and where 
appropriate, changes are made prospectively. The Company's property plant and 
equipment is depreciated using the following estimated lives: 
 
 
 
Building and building improvements (years)           10 40 
Leasehold improvements (years)                        3 10 
Furniture, fixtures and production equipment (years)  3 10 
Software (years)                                      3  7 
Orchards in production and land improvements         15 35 
  

 
Property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the 
carrying amounts are not recoverable. 
 
Goodwill 
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the 
net assets acquired in each business combination, with the carrying value of 
the Company's goodwill allocated to its reporting units, in accordance with the 
acquisition method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but it is subject 
to an annual assessment for impairment, which the Company performs during the 
fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such 
that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. 
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. The 
Company identifies its reporting units by assessing whether the components of 
its operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial 
information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly 
reviews the operating results of those components. Goodwill impairment testing 
involves a two-step process. The first step requires comparison of the fair 
value of each of the reporting units to the respective carrying value. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit is less than the fair value, no impairment 
exists and the second step is not performed. If the carrying value of the 
reporting unit is higher than the fair value, the second step must be performed 
to compute the amount of the goodwill impairment, if any. In the second step, 
the impairment is computed by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting 
unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount 
of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. 
 
The Company generally estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using an 
equal weighting of the income and market approaches. The Company uses industry 
accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by 
various levels of management and, in certain instances, the Company engages 
third-party valuation specialists. Under the income approach, the Company uses 
a discounted cash flow methodology which requires management to make 
significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross 
profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual 
growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market 
approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method. Under this 
method the Company utilizes information from comparable publicly traded 
companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the 
reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the 
operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, in order to obtain 
their respective fair values. The Company also reconciles the aggregate fair 
values of its reporting units determined in the first step (as described above) 
to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control 
premium. 
 
  F-9 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Other Intangibles, net 
 
Other intangibles consist of definite-lived intangible assets (such as 
investment in licenses, customer lists, and others) and indefinite-lived 
intangible assets (such as acquired trade names and trademarks). The cost of 
definite-lived intangible assets is amortized to reflect the pattern of 
economic benefits consumed, over the estimated periods benefited, ranging from 
3 to 16 years, while indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. 
 
Long-lived assets, such as definite-lived intangibles and property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. When such 
events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed 
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual 
disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected 
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then an impairment 
charge would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair 
value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 
 
The Company tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least 
annually, during the fourth quarter, or whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. The 
impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating 
a fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair 
value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, 
impairment is recognized for the difference. To determine fair value of other 
indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company uses an income approach, the 
relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a 
third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to 
use the comparable asset. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets' fair values 
require significant judgments in determining both the assets' estimated cash 
flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those 
cash flows to determine fair value. 
 
Business Combinations 
 
The Company accounts for business combinations in accordance with ASC Topic 805 
which requires, among other things, the acquiring entity in a business 
combination to recognize the fair value of all the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed; the recognition of acquisition-related costs in the 
consolidated results of operations; the recognition of restructuring costs in 
the consolidated results of operations for which the acquirer becomes obligated 
after the acquisition date; and contingent purchase consideration to be 
recognized at their fair values on the acquisition date with subsequent 
adjustments recognized in the consolidated results of operations. The fair 
values assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired are determined 
primarily by using an income approach which is based on assumptions and 
estimates made by management. Significant assumptions utilized in the income 
approach are based on company specific information and projections which are 
not observable in the market and are therefore considered Level 3 measurements. 
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identified assets 
and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Operating results of the acquired 
entity are reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements from 
date of acquisition. 
 
Deferred Catalog Costs 
 
The Company capitalizes the costs of producing and distributing its catalogs. 
These costs are amortized in direct proportion to actual sales from the 
corresponding catalog over a period not to exceed 12 months. Included within 
prepaid and other current assets was $2.5 million and $0.2 million at June 28, 
2015 and June 29, 2014 respectively, relating to prepaid catalog expenses. 
 
Investments 
 
The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of 
private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity 
method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant 
influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is 
generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the 
voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such 
as representation on the investee's Board of Directors, are considered in 
determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records 
equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to 
reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. The 
Company's equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest in Flores 
Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the 
Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $2.9 
million as of June 28, 2015 and $3.2 million as of June 29, 2014, and is 
included in Other assets within the consolidated balance sheets. The Company's 
equity in the net income (loss) of Flores Online for each of the years ended 
June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014 was $(0.3) million and $(0.6) million. 
 
  F-10 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where 
the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are 
accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally 
recorded at cost, and are included within Other assets in the Company's 
consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's 
cost method investments was $0.7 million as of June 28, 2015 and $0.8 million 
as of June 29, 2014. In addition, the Company had notes receivable from a 
company it maintains an investment in of $0.3 million as of June 28, 2015 and 
$0.5 million as of June 29, 2014. As described in Note 4 "Acquisitions", on 
December 3, 2013, the Company increased its investment in iFlorist, resulting 
in a majority ownership interest (56%), through the conversion of notes 
receivable and the purchase of additional shares from the Company's founders. 
The acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist resulted in the 
consolidation of iFlorist's operations. 
 
The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its 
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are 
measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in 
Other assets in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 10). 
 
Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative 
information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair 
value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge 
is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. 
 
Concentration of Credit Risk 
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant 
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents 
and accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with 
high quality financial institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect 
to accounts receivable is limited due to the Company's large number of 
customers and their dispersion throughout the United States, and the fact that 
a substantial portion of receivables are related to balances owed by major 
credit card companies. Allowances relating to consumer, corporate and franchise 
accounts receivable ($2.2 million at June 28, 2015 and $2.4 million at June 29, 
2014) have been recorded based upon previous experience and management's 
evaluation. 
 
Revenue Recognition 
 
Net revenues are generated by e-commerce operations from the Company's online 
and telephonic sales channels as well as other operations (retail/wholesale) 
and primarily consist of the selling price of merchandise, service or outbound 
shipping charges, net of discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues are 
recognized primarily upon product delivery and do not include sales tax. Net 
revenues generated by the Company's BloomNet Wire Service operations include 
membership fees as well as other products and service offerings to florists. 
Membership fees are recognized monthly in the period earned, and products sales 
are recognized upon product shipment with shipping terms primarily FOB shipping 
point. 
 
Initial franchise fees are recognized in income when the Company has 
substantially performed or satisfied all material services or conditions 
relating to the sale of the franchise and the fees are nonrefundable. Area 
development fees are nonrefundable and are recognized in income on a pro-rata 
basis when the conditions for revenue recognition under the individual area 
development agreements are met. Both initial franchise fees and area 
development fees are generally recognized upon the opening of a franchise store 
or upon termination of the agreement between the Company and the franchisee. 
 
Cost of Revenues 
 
Cost of revenues consists primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid 
directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from 
inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and 
outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues includes labor and 
facility costs related to manufacturing and production operations. 
 
  F-11 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Marketing and Sales 
 
Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional 
expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search expenses, retail store 
and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues), and 
customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the 
Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising 
activities. 
 
The Company expenses all advertising costs, with the exception of catalog costs 
(see Deferred Catalog Costs above), at the time the advertisement is first 
shown. Advertising expense was $130.6 million, $83.0 million and $77.9 million 
for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively. 
 
Technology and Development 
 
Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating 
expenses of the Company's information technology group, costs associated with 
its websites, including hosting, content development and maintenance and 
support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, 
fulfillment and database systems. Costs associated with the acquisition or 
development of software for internal use are capitalized if the software is 
expected to have a useful life beyond one year and amortized over the 
software's useful life, typically three to seven years. Costs associated with 
repair maintenance or the development of website content are expensed as 
incurred as the useful lives of such software modifications are less than one 
year. 
 
Stock-Based Compensation 
 
The Company records compensation expense associated with restricted stock 
awards and other forms of equity compensation based upon the fair value of 
stock-based awards as measured at the grant date. The cost associated with 
share-based awards that are subject solely to time-based vesting requirements, 
less expected forfeitures, is recognized over the awards' service period for 
the entire award on a straight-line basis. The cost associated with 
performance-based equity awards is recognized for each tranche over the service 
period, based on an assessment of the likelihood that the applicable 
performance goals will be achieved. 
 
Derivatives and hedging 
 
The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes, 
but rather, on occasion to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
When entering into these transactions, the Company has managed its floating 
rate debt using interest rate swaps in order to reduce its exposure to the 
impact of changing interest rates on its consolidated results of operations and 
future cash outflows for interest. The Company did not have any open derivative 
positions at June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014. 
 
Income Taxes 
 
The Company uses the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. 
The Company has established deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary 
differences between the financial reporting bases and the income tax bases of 
its assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when 
such assets or liabilities are realized or settled. The Company recognizes as a 
deferred tax asset, the tax benefits associated with losses related to 
operations. Realization of these deferred tax assets assumes that we will be 
able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that these assets will be 
realized. The factors that the Company considers in assessing the likelihood of 
realization include the forecast of future taxable income and available tax 
planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax 
assets. 
 
  F-12 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if 
it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on 
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the 
position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a 
particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a 
greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The amount of 
unrecognized tax benefits ("UTBs") is adjusted as appropriate for changes in 
facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, 
new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information 
obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We 
recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to 
UTBs in income tax expense. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are 
required in determining if the "more likely than not" standard has been met 
when developing the provision for income taxes. 
 
Net Income (Loss) Per Share 
 
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted-average 
number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income 
(loss) per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common and 
dilutive common equivalent shares (consisting primarily of employee stock 
options and unvested restricted stock awards) outstanding during the period. 
Diluted net loss per share excludes the effect of potential common shares 
(consisting primarily of employee stock options and unvested restricted stock 
awards) that would be antidilutive. 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees 
Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help 
entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software 
license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service 
contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of 
ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially 
modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's 
fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. We are currently evaluating the potential 
impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation 
of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest - Imputation of 
Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU 
No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt 
liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that 
debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This 
presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which 
states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect 
reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest 
rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not 
assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is 
effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be 
applied retrospectively. 
 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue 
recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. 
Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of 
revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This 
guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018 
and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the potential 
impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, "Reporting Discontinued 
Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity," which 
amends ASC 205, "Presentation of Financial Statements," and ASC 360, "Property, 
Plant, and Equipment." ASU No. 2014-08 amends the requirements for reporting 
discontinued operations and requires additional disclosures about discontinued 
operations. Under the new guidance, only disposals representing a strategic 
shift in operations or that have a major effect on the Company's operations and 
financial results should be presented as discontinued operations. This new 
accounting guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 3, 
2016, and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the 
potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial 
statements. 
 
  F-13 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, "Presentation of an Unrecognized 
Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a 
Tax Credit Carryforward Exists," which amends ASC 740, "Income Taxes." The 
amendments provide guidance on the financial statement presentation of an 
unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of a deferred tax asset or as a 
liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or a tax 
credit carryforward exists. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and 
interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013 and may 
be applied on either a prospective or retrospective basis. The provisions are 
effective for the Company's first quarter of fiscal year ending June 28, 2015. 
The adoption of these provisions did not have a significant impact on the 
Company's consolidated financial statements. 
 
Reclassifications 
 
Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to 
the presentation in the current fiscal year. 
 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Common Share from Continuing Operations 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income 
per common share from continuing operations: 
 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 June 30, 2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share data) 
Numerator: 
Income from continuing operations          $ 19,384      $ 13,946      $ 15,722 
Less: Net loss attributable to                (903)         (697)             - 
noncontrolling interest 
Income from continuing operations          $ 20,287      $ 14,643      $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Denominator: 
Weighted average shares outstanding          64,976        64,035        64,369 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Employee stock options (1)                    1,561         1,083           786 
Employee restricted stock awards              1,065         1,342         1,637 
                                              2,626         2,425         2,423 
Adjusted weighted-average shares and         67,602        66,460        66,792 
assumed conversions 
Net income per common share from 
continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Basic                                        $ 0.31        $ 0.23        $ 0.24 
Diluted                                      $ 0.30        $ 0.22        $ 0.24 
  

 
Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.1 million, 1.2 million and 2.0 
million shares for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 
2013, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share 
on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. 
 
Note 4. Acquisitions 
 
Acquisition of Harry & David 
 
On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David, 
a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium 
gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the 
Harry & David brands. The transaction, for a purchase price of $142.5 million, 
includes the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, 
manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a 
warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 48 Harry & David retail 
stores located throughout the country. 
 
  F-14 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company finalized the allocation of 
the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
based on its estimates of their fair values on the acquisition date. The 
determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities 
(and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and 
identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. The estimates 
and assumptions include the projected timing and amount of future cash flows 
and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the future cash flows. Of the 
acquired intangible assets, $5.2 million was assigned to customer lists, which 
are being amortized over the estimated remaining lives of between 4 to 11 
years, $35.5 million was assigned to trademarks, $1.1 million was assigned to 
leasehold positions and $16.0 million was assigned to goodwill, which is not 
expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill recognized in 
conjunction with our acquisition of Harry & David is primarily related to 
synergistic value created in terms of both operating costs and revenue growth 
opportunities, enhanced financial and operational scale, and other strategic 
benefits. It also includes certain other intangible assets that do not qualify 
for separate recognition, such as an assembled workforce. 
 
The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to 
the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the 
date of the acquisition, as well as adjustments made during the measurement 
period: 
 
 
 
                          Harry & David Preliminary Measurement Period    Harry & David 
                          Purchase Price            Adjustments           Final 
                          Allocation 
 
                                                    (1)                   Purchase Price 
                                                                          Allocation 
                          (in thousands)            (in thousands)        (in thousands) 
Current assets                            $ 124,245               $ 2,023          $ 126,268 
Intangible assets                            17,209                24,618             41,827 
Goodwill                                     38,635              (22,593)             16,042 
Property, plant and                          91,023                14,056            105,079 
equipment 
Other assets                                    111                 (242)              (131) 
Total assets acquired                       271,223                17,862            289,085 
Current liabilities,                        104,335                   178            104,513 
including short-term 
debt 
Deferred tax liabilities                     23,252                18,796             42,048 
Other liabilities assumed                     1,136               (1,112)                 24 
Total liabilities assumed                   128,723                17,862            146,585 
Net assets acquired                       $ 142,500                     -          $ 142,500 
  

 
 
 
(1) The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of the 
    valuations related to property plant and equipment and intangible assets 
    and resulted in the following: an increase in property, plant and equipment 
    and intangible assets, with the related increase in long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and corresponding decrease in goodwill. The measurement period 
    adjustments did not have a significant impact on the Company's condensed 
    consolidated statements of income for the year ended June 28, 2015. 
  

 
The estimated fair value of the acquired work in process and finished goods 
inventory was determined utilizing the income approach. The income approach 
estimates the fair value of the inventory based on the net retail value of the 
inventory less operating expenses and a reasonable profit allowance. Raw 
materials inventory was valued at book value, as there have not been any 
significant price fluctuations or other events that would materially change the 
cost to replace the raw materials. 
 
The estimated fair value of the deferred revenue was determined based on the 
costs to perform the remaining services and/or satisfy the Company's remaining 
obligations, plus a reasonable profit for those activities. These remaining 
costs exclude sales and marketing expenses since the Deferred Revenue has 
already been "sold," and no additional sales and marketing expenses will be 
incurred. The reasonable profit to be earned on the deferred revenue was 
estimated based on the profit mark-up that the Company earns on similar 
services. 
 
  F-15 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The estimated fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined 
utilizing a combination of the cost, sales comparison, market, and excess 
earnings method approaches, as follows: 
 
Under the cost approach a replacement cost of the asset is first determined 
based on replacing the real property with assets of equal utility and 
functionality, developed based on both the indirect and the direct cost 
methods. The indirect cost method includes multiplying the assets' historical 
costs by industry specific inflationary trend factors to yield an estimated 
replacement cost. In applying this method, all direct and indirect costs 
including tax, freight, installation, engineering and other associated soft 
costs were considered. The direct cost method includes obtaining a current 
replacement cost estimate from the Company and equipment dealers, which 
includes all applicable direct and indirect costs. An appropriate depreciation 
allowance is then applied to the replacement cost based on the effective age of 
the assets relative to the expected normal useful lives of the assets, 
condition of the assets, and the planned future utilization of the assets. The 
determination of fair value also includes considerations of functional 
obsolescence and economic obsolescence, where applicable. 
 
The sales comparison approach was considered for certain real estate property. 
Under the sales comparison approach, an estimate of fair value is determined by 
comparing the property being valued to similar properties that have been sold 
within a reasonable period from the valuation date, applying appropriate units 
of comparison. 
 
The market approach was considered for certain assets with active secondary 
markets including agricultural equipment, automobiles, computer equipment, 
general equipment, mobile equipment, packaging machinery and semi-tractors. 
Under the market approach market, comparables for the assets are obtained from 
equipment dealers, resellers, industry databases, and published price guides. 
The market comparables are then adjusted to the subject assets based on age, 
condition or type of transaction. All applicable direct and indirect costs are 
also considered and reflected in the final fair value determination. 
 
The fair value of orchards in production was determined based on the excess 
earnings method under the income approach. This valuation approach assumed that 
the orchards' production could be sold independently through a wholesale market 
rather than Harry & David's retail channel. The excess earnings method required 
calculating future crop revenue as determined by multiplying the future crop 
volume in tons to be produced by the projected price per ton based on the USDA 
"Agricultural Prices" report released January 31, 2015 by the National 
Agricultural Statistics Services. Appropriate expenses were deducted from the 
sales attributable to the orchards and economic rents were charged for the 
return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the 
asset were discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate rate of 
return and summed to calculate the value of the orchards. 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the 
relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow 
approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by 
estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from 
royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated 
by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through 
ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts 
back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based 
on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The 
discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company's weighted average 
cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with the 
trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using 
the excess earnings method under the income approach. This method requires 
identifying the future revenue that would be generated by existing customers at 
the time of the acquisition, considering an appropriate attrition rate based on 
the historical experience of the Company. Appropriate expenses are then 
deducted from the revenues and economic rents are charged for the return on 
contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset are 
discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate intangible asset 
rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the customer lists. 
 
  F-16 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Operating results of Harry & David are reflected in the Company's consolidated 
financial statements from the date of acquisition, within its Gourmet Food & 
Gift Baskets segment. Harry & David contributed net revenues of $359.7 million 
and operating income of approximately $24.6 million from September 30, 2014 
through June 28, 2015. These amounts are not necessarily indicative of the 
results of operations that Harry & David would have realized had it continued 
to operate as a stand-alone company during the period presented due to 
integration activities since the acquisition date, and due to costs that are 
now reflected in the Company's unallocated corporate costs which are not 
allocated to Harry & David. 
 
As required by ASC 805, "Business Combinations," the following unaudited pro 
forma financial information for the year ended June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, 
give effect to the Harry & David acquisition as if it had been completed on 
July 1, 2013. The unaudited pro forma financial information is prepared by 
management for informational purposes only in accordance with ASC 805 and is 
not necessarily indicative of or intended to represent the results that would 
have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of the dates 
presented, and should not be taken as representative of future consolidated 
results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial information does not 
reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that the Company may 
achieve with respect to the combined companies. The pro forma information has 
been adjusted to give effect to nonrecurring items that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition. 
 
 
 
                                                                   Year Ended 
                                                                   June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
Net revenues from continuing operations                              $ 1,152,103   $ 1,142,946 
Income from continuing operations attributable to                       $ 17,812      $ 19,439 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Diluted net income per common share attributable to                       $ 0.26        $ 0.29 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
  

 
The unaudited pro forma amounts above include the following adjustments: 
 
 
 
(1) An increase of net revenues and a decrease of cost of sales by $1.6 million 
    and $4.8 million, to reflect the impact of purchase accounting adjustments 
    related to Harry & David's deferred revenue and inventory fair value 
    step-up in the year ended June 28, 2015. 
  

 
 
 
(2) A decrease of operating expenses by $17.4 million during the year ended 
    June 28, 2015, to eliminate non-recurring acquisition costs ($11.9 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015), integration costs ($3.0 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015) and severance costs ($2.5 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015) directly related to the transaction. 
  

 
 
 
(3) A decrease of operating expenses by $0.4 million during the year ended June 
    29, 2014, to eliminate non-recurring acquisition costs directly related to 
    the transaction. 
  

 
 
 
(4) An increase of operating expenses by $0.2 million during the year ended 
    June 29, 2014, to reflect the additional amortization expense related to 
    the increase in definite lived intangibles. 
  

 
 
 
(5) An increase to interest expense by $1.1 million for the year ended June 28, 
    2015, and $4.8 million for the year ended June 29, 2014, respectively, to 
    reflect the incremental impact of the 2014 Credit Facility utilized to 
    finance the acquisition, assuming our new credit facility was in place on 
    July 1, 2013. 
  

 
 
 
(6) The adjustments above were tax effected at the combined entity's assumed effective tax 
    rate for the respective periods. 
  

 
Acquisition of Fannie May retail stores 
 
On June 27, 2014, the Company and GB Chocolates LLC (GB Chocolates) entered 
into a settlement agreement, resulting in the termination of the GB Chocolates 
franchise agreement, and its exclusive area development rights. As a result, in 
fiscal 2014, the Company recognized the previously deferred non-refundable area 
development fees of $0.7 million. In addition, per the terms of the 
non-performance Promissory Note, GB Chocolates paid $1.2 million as a result of 
its failure to complete its development obligations under the 2011 Area 
Development Agreement (the 2011 ADA). As a result, during the fourth quarter of 
fiscal 2014, the Company recognized revenue of $1.0 million ($0.2 million had 
been previously recognized). The Company has no plans to market the territories 
covered in the 2011 ADA. 
 
  F-17 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In conjunction with the settlement agreement, the Company and GB Chocolates 
entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby the Company repurchased 16 of 
the original 17 Fannie May retail stores sold to GB Chocolates in November 
2011. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting 
in accordance with FASB guidance regarding business combinations. The purchase 
price of $6.4 million was financed utilizing available cash balances. 
 
During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company finalized the allocation of 
the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
based on our estimates of their fair values on the acquisition date. There have 
been no measurement period adjustments. The following table summarizes the 
final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition: 
 
 
 
                              Final 
                              Purchase Price Allocation 
                              (in thousands) 
Current Assets                                    $ 103 
Property, plant and equipment                       487 
Goodwill                                          5,783 
Net assets acquired                             $ 6,373 
  

 
Operating results of the acquired stores are reflected in the Company's 
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, within the 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. Pro forma results of operations have not 
been presented, as the impact on the Company's consolidated financial results 
would not have been material. 
 
Acquisition of Colonial Gifts Limited 
 
On December 3, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition of a controlling 
interest in Colonial Gifts Limited (iFlorist). iFlorist, located in the UK, is 
a direct-to-consumer marketer of floral and gift-related products sold and 
delivered throughout Europe. The acquisition was achieved in stages and was 
accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB") guidance regarding business 
combinations. 
 
Prior to December 3, 2013, the Company maintained an investment in iFlorist in 
the amount of $1.6 million, which was included on the Company's balance sheet 
within Other assets. This investment was accounted for under the cost method, 
as the Company's ownership stake was 19.9%, and it did not have the ability to 
exercise significant influence. 
 
On December 3, 2013, the Company acquired an additional interest in iFlorist, 
bringing the Company's ownership interest to 56.2%. The acquisition of the 
additional interest was financed through the conversion of $2.0 million of 
notes owed by iFlorist to the Company, and a $1.6 million cash payment to 
iFlorist's founders. Concurrent with the additional investment, the Company 
remeasured its initial equity investment in iFlorist, and determined that the 
acquisition date fair value approximated the Company's carrying value of $1.6 
million, and therefore no gain or loss was recognized. On the acquisition date, 
the Company also measured the fair value of the noncontrolling interest which 
amounted to $3.6 million. The acquisition-date fair values of the Company's 
previously held equity interest in iFlorist and the noncontrolling interest 
were determined based on the market price the Company paid for its ownership 
interest in iFlorist on the acquisition date, assuming that a 20% control 
premium was paid to obtain the controlling interest. The following summarizes 
the fair values of the acquisition date purchase price components: 
 
  F-18 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
                          iFlorist Fair Value of Purchase Price Components 
                          (in thousands) 
Cash                                                               $ 1,640 
Converted debt                                                       1,964 
Initial equity investment                                            1,629 
Noncontrolling interest                                              3,616 
Total purchase price                                               $ 8,849 
  

 
During the quarter ended December 28, 2014, the Company finalized the 
allocation of the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed based on our estimates of their fair values on the 
acquisition date. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets 
and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of 
depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant 
judgment. The estimates and assumptions include the projected timing and amount 
of future cash flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the future 
cash flows. Of the acquired intangible assets, $0.7 million was assigned to 
customer lists, which is being amortized over the estimated remaining life of 3 
years, $0.7 million was assigned to trademarks, and $7.9 million was assigned 
to goodwill, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. As a 
result of cumulative tax losses in the foreign jurisdiction, offset in part by 
the deferred tax liability arising from the amortizable customer lists which 
was considered a source of future income, the Company concluded that a full 
valuation allowance be recorded in such jurisdiction. 
 
The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to 
the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the 
date of the acquisition, as well as adjustments made during the measurement 
period: 
 
 
 
                        iFlorist         Measurement Period  iFlorist Final 
                        Preliminary      Adjustments 
 
                        Purchase Price   (1)                 Purchase Price Allocation 
                        Allocation 
                        (in thousands)   (in thousands)      (in thousands) 
Current assets                     $ 856                   -                     $ 856 
Intangible assets                  3,177             (1,709)                     1,468 
Goodwill                           6,537               1,320                     7,857 
Property, plant and                2,006                   -                     2,006 
equipment 
Other assets                          30                   -                        30 
Total assets acquired             12,606               (389)                    12,217 
Current liabilities,               3,014                   -                     3,014 
including current 
maturities of long-term 
debt 
Deferred tax                         648               (389)                       259 
liabilities 
Other liabilities                     95                   -                        95 
assumed 
Total liabilities                  3,757               (389)                     3,368 
assumed 
Net assets acquired              $ 8,849                   -                   $ 8,849 
  

 
 
 
(2) The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of 
    valuations related to intangible assets and resulted in the following: a 
    decrease to intangible assets and the related long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and an increase to goodwill. The measurement period adjustments 
    did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated statements 
    of income for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2015. In addition, 
    these adjustments did not have a significant impact on our condensed 
    consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2014. Therefore, we have not 
    retrospectively adjusted this financial information. 
  

 
The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the 
relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow 
approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by 
estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from 
royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated 
by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through 
ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts 
back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based 
on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The 
discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company's weighted average 
cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with the 
trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. 
 
  F-19 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using 
the with and without method. This method calculates the debt-free cash flows 
generated under two scenarios: the with and without. Under the with scenario, 
it is assumed that the Company achieves full projections and includes both 
existing customers as of the valuation date as well as new customers acquired 
during the course of normal business. The without scenario, assumes that the 
Company has no existing customers, but rather builds to management projections 
as new customers are acquired. The differential between the cash flows under 
the two scenarios is then discounted to present value to determine the value of 
the customer lists as of the valuation date. 
 
Operating results of the Company's membership interest in iFlorist are 
reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of 
acquisition, essentially all of which is included within the 1-800-Flowers.com 
Consumer Floral segment. iFlorist's operations are not material to the 
Company's consolidated financial statements and as such pro forma results of 
operations have not been presented. 
 
Acquisition of 1-800-Flowers' European trademarks 
 
On March 11, 2013, the Company acquired the European rights to various 
derivations of the 1-800-Flowers' tradename, trademark, URL's and telephone 
numbers from Flowerscorp Pty Ltd. for a purchase price of $4.0 million, which 
is included within Other intangibles, net. 
 
Note 5. Inventory 
 
The Company's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, 
includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging 
supplies, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated 
manufacturing labor, growing crops and is classified as follows: 
 
 
 
                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                (in thousands) 
Finished goods       $ 43,254      $ 30,859 
Work-in-process        16,020         8,566 
Raw materials          33,889        19,095 
                     $ 93,163      $ 58,520 
  

 
  F-20 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
 
The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the 
net carrying amount: 
 
 
 
                         Consumer Floral BloomNet Wire    Gourmet Food and Gift  Total 
                                         Service          Baskets (1) 
                                         (in thousands) 
Balance at June 30, 2013        $ 10,251                                $ 37,692 $ 47,943 
Acquisition of Fannie                                                      5,783    5,783 
May franchise stores 
Adjustments                         (97)                                       -     (97) 
Acquisition of iFlorist            6,537                                       -    6,537 
Balance at June 29, 2014        $ 16,691                                $ 43,475 $ 60,166 
Harry & David                                                             16,042   16,042 
acquisition 
iFlorist measurement               1,320                                            1,320 
period adjustment 
iFlorist translation               (429)                                            (429) 
adjustment 
Other                                                                        (2)      (2) 
Balance at June 28, 2015        $ 17,582                                $ 59,515 $ 77,097 
  

 
 
 
(1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is 
    reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which 
    were recorded in the GFGB segment during fiscal 2009. 
  

 
There were no goodwill impairment charges in any segment during the years ended 
June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013. 
 
The Company's other intangible assets consist of the following: 
 
 
 
                         June 28, 2015                   June 29, 2014 
             Amortizatio Gross     Accumulated  Net      Gross    Accumulated  Net 
             n           Carrying  Amortization          Carrying Amortization 
                         Amount                          Amount 
 
             Period 
 
             (in years) 
                                   (in thousands) 
Intangible 
assets with 
determinable 
lives 
Investment         14 16   $ 7,420      $ 5,727  $ 1,693  $ 7,420      $ 5,621  $ 1,799 
in licenses 
Customer            3 10    21,815       14,595    7,220   17,313       12,818    4,495 
lists 
Other               5  8     3,665        2,597    1,068    2,538        2,538        - 
                            32,900       22,919    9,981   27,271       20,977    6,294 
Trademarks                  72,144            -   72,144   38,322            -   38,322 
with 
indefinite 
lives 
Total                    $ 105,044     $ 22,919 $ 82,125 $ 65,593     $ 20,977 $ 44,616 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
  

 
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may 
not be recoverable. No material impairments were recognized for the years ended 
June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013. 
 
The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 
29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 was $.2.1 million, $1.6 million and $1.8 million, 
respectively. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: 2016 - $2.1 
million, 2017 - $1.5 million, 2018 - $1.3 million, 2019 - $0.7 million, 2020 - 
$0.6 million and thereafter - $3.8 million. 
 
  F-21 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Note 7. Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
 
 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                                (in thousands) 
Land                                                 $ 31,077       $ 2,907 
Orchards in production and land improvements            9,028             - 
Building and building improvements                     55,121        12,551 
Leasehold improvements                                 19,459        18,504 
Production equipment and furniture and fixtures        63,132        40,582 
Computer and telecommunication equipment               56,582        57,488 
Software                                              150,695       136,226 
Capital projects in progress - orchards                 7,335             - 
                                                      392,429       268,258 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization             222,329       208,111 
                                                    $ 170,100      $ 60,147 
  

 
Depreciation expense for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 
30, 2013 was $27.0 million, $18.2 million, and $17.0 million, respectively. 
 
Note 8. Accrued Expenses 
 
Accrued expenses consisted of the following: 
 
 
 
                              June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                              (in thousands) 
Payroll and employee benefits      $ 36,370      $ 22,601 
Advertising and marketing            11,923        11,803 
Other                                25,346        15,113 
                                   $ 73,639      $ 49,517 
  

 
Note 9. Long-Term Debt 
 
The Company's current and long-term debt consists of the following: 
 
 
 
                                           June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                           (in thousands) 
Revolver (1)                                           -             - 
Term Loan (1)                                    131,813             - 
Bank loan (2)                                        293           343 
Total debt                                       132,106           343 
Less: current maturities of long-term debt        14,543           343 
Long-term debt                                 $ 117,563             - 
  

 
 
 
(1) In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, 
    the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
    administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), 
    consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a 
    maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit 
    facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from 
    $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to 
    applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is 
    payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in 
    December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in 
    years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with 
    the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of 
    the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to 
    repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous 
    credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 
    There are no amounts outstanding under the Revolver as of June 28, 2015. 
  

 
  F-22 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the 
Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including 
the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with 
these covenants as of June 28, 2015. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit 
Facility bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a 
spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage 
ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit 
Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the 
Subsidiary Guarantors. 
 
Future payments under the term loan are as follows: $14.2 million - 2016, $19.6 
million - 2017, $21.4 million - 2018, $26.7 million - 2019 and $49.9 million - 
2020. 
 
 
 
(2) Bank loan assumed through the Company's acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist. 
  

 
Note 10. Fair Value Measurements 
 
Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses 
are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which 
approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. 
Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying 
amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The 
Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies 
are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary 
impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an 
other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's 
remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair 
value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite 
lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost 
and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an 
other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and 
indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely 
than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting 
standards. 
 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for 
the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements 
establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation 
techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority 
to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable 
inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy 
under the guidance are described below: 
 
 
 
Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical 
        assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. 
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, 
        quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are 
        observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially 
        the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market 
        activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or 
        liabilities. 
  

 
The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: 
 
 
 
                                              Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                             Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                             Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                             (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 28, 2015: 
Trading securities held in a "rabbi trust"           $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
(1) 
                                                     $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
  

 
  F-23 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
                                              Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                             Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                             Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                             (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 29, 2014: 
Trading securities held in a "rabbi trust"           $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
(1) 
                                                     $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
  

 
 
 
(1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 
    (Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans) for certain members of senior 
    management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds 
    held in a "rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of 
    the NQDC Plan Trading securities held in the rabbi trust are measured using 
    quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other 
    assets, with the corresponding liability included in Other liabilities, in 
    the consolidated balance sheets. 
  

 
Note 11. Income Taxes 
 
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and 
various state and foreign jurisdictions. The Company concluded its federal 
examination by the Internal Revenue Service for fiscal year 2011, however, 
fiscal years 2012 through 2014 remain subject to federal examination. Due to 
ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the federal statute of 
limitations for assessment, certain states also remain open from fiscal 2011. 
The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The 
Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective 
foreign tax authorities in Canada and the United Kingdom 
 
The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At June 28, 
2015, the Company has an unrecognized tax position of approximately $0.6 
million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company 
believes that no additional significant unrecognized tax positions will be 
resolved over the next twelve months. 
 
Significant components of the income tax provision from continuing operations 
are as follows: 
 
 
 
                              Years ended 
                              June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                              2015     2014     2013 
                              (in thousands) 
Current provision (benefit): 
Federal                        $ 6,630  $ 6,439  $ 7,983 
State                            1,840    1,247    1,845 
Foreign                           (11)       11        - 
                                 8,459    7,697    9,828 
Deferred provision (benefit): 
Federal                          1,970      773    (730) 
State                              631       28     (25) 
Foreign                          (130)     (95)        - 
                                 2,471      706    (755) 
Income tax expense            $ 10,930  $ 8,403  $ 9,073 
  

 
  F-24 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company's 
effective tax rate is as follows: 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Tax at U.S. statutory rates                        35.0 %     35.0 %     35.0 % 
State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit      3.8        3.7        3.3 
Valuation allowance change                          2.6        1.5          - 
Rate differences                                    1.1        1.2      (0.3) 
Tax settlements                                     1.4      (1.0)        1.1 
Deductible stock-based compensation               (1.3)      (0.2)      (0.1) 
Domestic production deduction                     (2.2)      (1.9)      (1.8) 
Tax credits                                       (3.9)      (1.7)      (1.2) 
Other, net                                        (0.4)        1.0        0.6 
                                                   36.1 %     37.6 %     36.6 % 
  

 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The significant 
components of the Company's deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as 
follows: 
 
 
 
                                             Years ended 
                                             June 28,   June 29, 
 
                                             2015       2014 
                                             (in thousands) 
Deferred income tax assets: 
Net operating loss and credit carryforwards     $ 6,743  $ 4,342 
Accrued expenses and reserves                     5,921    6,178 
Stock-based compensation                          3,622    3,420 
Book in excess of tax depreciation                    -    1,322 
Gross deferred income tax assets                 16,286   15,262 
Less: Valuation allowance                       (4,589)  (2,241) 
                                                 11,697   13,021 
Deferred income tax liabilities: 
Other intangibles                              (23,307)  (6,512) 
Tax in excess of book depreciation             (26,197)        - 
                                               (49,504)  (6,512) 
Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ (37,807)  $ 6,509 
  

 
A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some 
portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company 
has established valuation allowances primarily for net operating loss 
carryforwards in certain states and its United Kingdom and Canada subsidiaries. 
At June 28, 2015 the Company's federal net operating loss carryforwards were 
$2.5 million, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in fiscal year 2025. 
The federal net operating loss is subject to Section 382 limitations of $0.3 
million per year. The Company's foreign net operating loss carryforward was 
$7.5 million, while the state net operating losses were $6.2 million, before 
federal benefit, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in fiscal year 
2016. 
 
Note 12. Capital Stock 
 
Holders of Class A common stock generally have the same rights as the holders 
of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock have one 
vote per share and holders of Class B common stock have 10 votes per share on 
all matters submitted to the vote of stockholders. Holders of Class A common 
stock and Class B common stock generally vote together as a single class on all 
matters presented to the stockholders for their vote or approval, except as may 
be required by Delaware law. Class B common stock may be converted into Class A 
common stock at any time on a one-for-one share basis. Each share of Class B 
common stock will automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock 
upon its transfer, with limited exceptions. During fiscal 2015, 2,748,550 
shares of Class B common stock were converted into shares of Class A common 
stock. 
 
  F-25 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made 
from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated 
transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is 
financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company's Board of 
Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. 
The Company repurchased a total of $8.4 million (1,056,038 shares), $8.3 
million (1,561,206 shares) and $9.6 million (2,490,065 shares) during the 
fiscal years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively, under this program. As of June 28, 2015, $27.3 million remains 
authorized under the plan. 
 
The Company has stock options and restricted stock awards outstanding to 
participants under the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM 2003 Long Term Incentive and Share 
Award Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is a broad-based, long-term incentive program 
that is intended to attract, retain and motivate employees, consultants and 
directors to achieve the Company's long-term growth and profitability 
objectives, and therefore align stockholder and employee interests. The Plan 
provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of 
stock options, share appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted shares, 
restricted share units, performance shares, performance units, dividend 
equivalents, and other share-based awards (collectively "Awards"). 
 
Note 13. Stock Based Compensation 
 
The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee or such other Board 
committee (or the entire Board) as may be designated by the Board (the 
"Committee"). At June 28, 2015, the Company has reserved approximately 12.5 
million shares of common stock for issuance, including options previously 
authorized for issuance under the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan. 
 
The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods 
presented are as follows: 
 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28,      June 29, June 30, 
 
                                      2015          2014     2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share 
                                      data) 
Stock options                                 $ 459    $ 420    $ 477 
Restricted stock awards                       5,503    4,244    3,806 
Total                                         5,962    4,664    4,283 
Deferred income tax benefit                   2,087    1,738    1,555 
Stock-based compensation expense, net       $ 3,875  $ 2,926  $ 2,728 
  

 
Stock based compensation expense is recorded within the following line items of 
operating expenses: 
 
 
 
                           Years Ended 
                           June 28, July 29, June 30, 
 
                           2015     2014     2013 
                           (in thousands) 
Marketing and sales         $ 1,866  $ 1,261  $ 1,499 
Technology and development      392      298      428 
General and administrative    3,704    3,105    2,356 
Total                       $ 5,962  $ 4,664  $ 4,283 
  

 
Stock-based compensation expense has not been allocated between business 
segments, but is reflected as part of Corporate overhead. (Refer to Note 15. 
Business Segments). 
 
  F-26 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Stock Options 
 
The weighted average fair value of stock options on the date of grant, and the 
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the stock options using the 
Black-Scholes option valuation model, were as follows: 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Weighted average fair value of options granted   $ 4.86     $ 3.16     $ 2.95 
Expected volatility                                  52 %       61 %       72 % 
Expected life (in years)                            7.3        6.6        6.4 
Risk-free interest rate                             1.9 %      1.6 %      0.7 % 
Expected dividend yield                             0.0 %      0.0 %      0.0 % 
  

 
The expected volatility of the option is determined using historical 
volatilities based on historical stock prices. The Company estimated the 
expected life of options granted based upon the historical weighted average. 
The risk-free interest rate is determined using the yield available for 
zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the expected 
life of the option. The Company has never paid a dividend, and as such the 
dividend yield is 0.0%. 
 
The following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended June 
28, 2015: 
 
 
 
                                  Options   Weighted Weighted                Aggregate 
 
                                            Average  Average                 Intrinsic 
 
                                            Exercise Remaining Contractual   Value (000s) 
                                                     Term 
 
                                            Price    (in years) 
Outstanding beginning of period   4,339,790   $ 3.80 
Granted                              75,000   $ 8.83 
Exercised                         (853,170)   $ 6.44 
Forfeited/Expired                 (216,474)   $ 8.44 
Outstanding end of period         3,345,146   $ 2.93                     4.3     $ 24,910 
Options vested or expected to     3,241,485   $ 2.93                     4.2     $ 24,141 
vest at end of period 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015      2,095,246   $ 3.04                     3.1     $ 15,371 
  

 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax 
intrinsic value (the difference between the Company's closing stock price on 
the last trading day of fiscal 2015 and the exercise price, multiplied by the 
number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option 
holders had all option holders exercised their options on June 28, 2015. This 
amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company's stock. The total 
intrinsic value of options exercised for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 
29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 was $3.6 million, $0.4 million, and $0.6 million, 
respectively. 
 
  F-27 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at 
June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
               Options Outstanding                            Options Exercisable 
Exercise Price Options     Weighted-                Weighted- Options     Weighted- 
 
               Outstanding Average                  Average   Exercisable Average 
 
                           Remaining                Exercise              Exercise 
 
                           Contractual Life (years) Price                 Price 
$1.69 - 1.79     1,003,500                      5.3    $ 1.79     501,000    $ 1.79 
$2.22 - 2.88     1,053,000                      6.3    $ 2.62     422,600    $ 2.61 
$3.11 - 3.11       959,755                      0.9    $ 3.11     959,755    $ 3.11 
$3.26 - 9.25       276,391                      4.2    $ 6.32     184,391    $ 6.09 
$9.74 - 10.20       52,500                      5.9    $ 9.99      27,500    $ 9.80 
                 3,345,146                      4.3    $ 2.93   2,095,246    $ 3.04 
  

 
As of June 28, 2015, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested 
options not yet recognized in the statement of operations was $1.8 million and 
the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be 
recognized was 3.9 years. 
 
Restricted Stock 
 
The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to 
restrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable 
service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). 
 
The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock 
during the year ended June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
                                 Shares      Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value 
Non-vested - beginning of period   2,686,685                                 $ 3.90 
Granted                              976,882                                 $ 8.09 
Vested                           (1,154,173)                                 $ 3.48 
Forfeited                          (167,342)                                 $ 7.14 
Non-vested - end of period         2,342,052                                 $ 5.62 
  

 
The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock 
price on the grant date. As of June 28, 2015, there was $8.1 million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based 
compensation to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. 
 
Note 14. Employee Retirement Plans 
 
The Company has a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan covering substantially all of its 
eligible employees. All employees who have attained the age of 21 are eligible 
to participate upon completion of one month of service. Participants may elect 
to make voluntary contributions to the 401(k) plan in amounts not exceeding 
federal guidelines. On an annual basis the Company, as determined by its board 
of directors, may make certain discretionary contributions. Employees are 
vested in the Company's contributions based upon years of service. The Company 
suspended all contributions during fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013. 
 
The Company also has a nonqualified supplemental deferred compensation plan for 
certain executives pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. 
Participants can defer from 1% up to a maximum of 100% of salary and 
performance and non-performance based bonus. The Company will match 50% of the 
deferrals made by each participant during the applicable period, up to a 
maximum of $2,500. Employees are vested in the Company's contributions based 
upon years of participation in the plan. Distributions will be made to 
participants upon termination of employment or death in a lump sum, unless 
installments are selected. As of June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, these plan 
liabilities, which are included in Other liabilities within the Company's 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, totaled $3.1 million and $2.1 million, 
respectively. The associated plan assets, which are subject to the claims of 
the creditors, are primarily invested in mutual funds and are included in Other 
assets-long term. Company contributions during the years ended June 28, 2015, 
June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 were less than $0.1 million. Gains and losses 
on these investments, were $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the 
years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, are included in 
Interest expense and other, net, within the Company's Consolidated Statements 
of Income. 
 
  F-28 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
Note 15. Business Segments 
 
The Company's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the 
following three business segments: 
 
 
 
. 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, 
  

 
 
 
. BloomNet Wire Service, and 
  

 
 
 
. Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets 
  

 
Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes 
only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As 
such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include 
the effect of corporate overhead (see (2) below), nor does it include 
depreciation and amortization, other income/expense and income taxes, or 
stock-based compensation and certain Harry & David transaction/integration 
costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and 
liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not 
accounted for by segment. 
 
 
 
                                  Years ended 
Net revenues                      June 28,    June 29,  June 30, 
 
                                  2015        2014      2013 
                                  (in thousands) 
Net revenues: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral   $ 422,199 $ 421,336 $ 411,526 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)              85,968    84,199    81,822 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)       613,953   251,990   243,225 
Corporate                               1,020       797       789 
Intercompany eliminations             (1,634)   (1,977)   (1,865) 
Total net revenues                $ 1,121,506 $ 756,345 $ 735,497 
  

 
 
 
                                            Years ended 
Operating Income from Continuing Operations June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                            2015     2014     2013 
                                            (in thousands) 
Segment Contribution Margin: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral           $ 43,529 $ 40,252 $ 47,193 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)                     29,398   26,715   25,611 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)               74,889   27,122   20,345 
Segment Contribution Margin Subtotal         147,816   94,089   93,149 
Corporate (2)                               (81,075) (50,535) (48,565) 
Depreciation and amortization               (29,124) (19,848) (18,798) 
Operating income                            $ 37,617 $ 23,706 $ 25,786 
  

 
  F-29 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
(1) Refer to Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May warehouse and distribution 
    facility. On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple 
    Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. As a result of the fire, 
    the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and 
    Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as 
    for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during its fiscal second and third 
    quarter. As a result, the Company's revenues and income from operations 
    were negatively impacted. The Company does not believe that there will be 
    any further significant impact from this issue beyond the year ended June 
    28, 2015. 
  

 
 
 
(2) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost 
    centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human 
    Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service 
    Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation, and during the year 
    ended June 28, 2015 acquisition and integration costs (including severance) 
    related to the acquisition of Harry & David, in the amount of $9.6 million. 
    In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are 
    operated under a centralized management platform, providing support 
    services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other 
    than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to 
    the above segments based upon usage, are included within corporate 
    expenses, as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. The 
    Company has commenced integrating Harry & David into its operating 
    platforms, and as such, their operating costs have been classified in a 
    similar manner. 
  

 
Note 16. Discontinued Operations 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company made the strategic 
decision to divest the e-commerce and procurement businesses of its Winetasting 
Network subsidiary in order to focus on growth opportunities in its Gourmet 
Foods and Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed on the sale of its 
e-commerce and procurement businesses on December 31, 2013. The Company had 
originally estimated a loss of $2.3 million ($1.5 million, net of tax), which 
was provided for during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, but the loss was 
reduced to $1.0 million, upon finalization of terms and closing on the sale. As 
a result, the Company reversed $1.3 million ($0.8 million, net of tax) of its 
accrual for the estimated loss during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2014. The 
Company has classified the results of the e-commerce and procurement business 
of The Winetasting Network as a discontinued operation for the fiscal years 
2014 and 2013. 
 
Results for discontinued operations are as follows: 
 
 
 
                                                              Years Ended 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29,2014 June 30, 2013 
                                                (in thousands, except per share data) 
Net revenues from discontinued operations                          $ 1,669       $ 5,154 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                       $ (86)     $ (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations,                      $ 815     $ (1,512) 
net of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations                           $ 729     $ (3,401) 
  

 
Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies 
 
Leases 
 
The Company currently leases office, store facilities, and equipment under 
various leases through fiscal 2030. As these leases expire, it can be expected 
that in the normal course of business they will be renewed or replaced. Most 
lease agreements contain renewal options and rent escalation clauses and 
require the Company to pay real estate taxes, insurance, common area 
maintenance and operating expenses applicable to the leased properties. The 
Company has also entered into leases that are on a month-to-month basis. These 
leases are classified as either capital leases, operating leases or subleases, 
as appropriate. 
 
  F-30 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
As of June 28, 2015 future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable 
operating leases with initial terms of one year or more consist of the 
following: 
 
 
 
                             Operating Leases 
                             (in thousands) 
                        2016         $ 24,338 
                        2017           20,940 
                        2018           15,980 
                        2019           12,658 
                        2020            9,826 
Thereafter                             52,195 
Total minimum lease payments        $ 135,937 
  

 
At June 28, 2015, the total future minimum sublease rentals under 
non-cancelable operating sub-leases for land and buildings were $3.0 million. 
 
Rent expense was approximately $28.3 million, $17.7 million and $17.7 million 
for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively. 
 
Other Commitments 
 
The Company's purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory, equipment 
and technology purchase orders made in the ordinary course of business, most of 
which have terms less than one year. As of June 28, 2015, the Company had fixed 
and determinable off-balance sheet purchase commitments with remaining terms in 
excess of one year of approximately $4.9 million, primarily related to the 
Company's technology infrastructure. 
 
The Company had approximately $2.5 million in unused stand-by letters of credit 
as of June 28, 2015. 
 
Litigation 
 
From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims 
arising in the ordinary course of business: 
 
  F-31 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In re Trilegiant Corporation, Inc. (Frank v.Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., et 
al): 
 
On November 10, 2010, a purported class action complaint was filed in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York naming the 
Company (along with Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., Affinion, Inc. and Chase Bank 
USA, N.A.) as defendants in an action purporting to assert claims against the 
Company alleging violations arising under the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Practices Act ("CUTPA") among other statutes, and for breach of contract and 
unjust enrichment in connection with certain post-transaction marketing 
practices in which certain of the Company's subsidiaries previously engaged in 
with certain third-party vendors. On December 23, 2011, plaintiff filed a 
notice of voluntary dismissal seeking to dismiss the entire action without 
prejudice. The court entered an Order on November 28, 2012, dismissing the case 
in its entirety. This case was subsequently refiled in the United States 
District Court for the District of Connecticut. 
 
On March 6, 2012 and March 15, 2012, two additional purported class action 
complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of 
Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as defendants in 
actions purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted in 
the lawsuit filed on November 10, 2010. In each case, plaintiffs seek to have 
the respective case certified as a class action and seek restitution and other 
damages, each in an amount in excess of $5.0 million. On April 26, 2012, the 
two Connecticut cases were consolidated with a third case previously pending in 
the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in which the 
Company is not a party (the "Consolidated Action"). A consolidated amended 
complaint was filed by plaintiffs on September 7, 2012, purporting to assert 
claims substantially similar to those originally asserted. The Company moved to 
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on December 7, 2012, which was 
subsequently refiled at the direction of the Court on January 16, 2013. 
 
On December 5, 2012, the same plaintiff from the action voluntarily dismissed 
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York filed 
a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the 
District of Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as 
defendants, purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted 
in the consolidated amended complaint (the "Frank Action"). On January 23, 
2013, plaintiffs in the Consolidated Action filed a motion to transfer and 
consolidate the action filed on December 5, 2012 with the Consolidated Action. 
The Company intends to defend each of these actions vigorously. 
 
On January 31, 2013, the court issued an order to show cause directing 
plaintiffs' counsel in the Frank Action, also counsel for plaintiffs in the 
Consolidated Action, to show cause why the Frank Action is distinguishable from 
the Consolidated Action such that it may be maintained despite the 
prior-pending action doctrine. On June 13, 2013, the court issued an order in 
the Frank Action suspending deadlines to answer or to otherwise respond to the 
complaint until 21 days after the court decides whether the Frank Action should 
be consolidated with the Consolidated Action. On July 24, 2013 the Frank Action 
was reassigned to Judge Vanessa Bryant, before whom the Consolidated Action is 
currently pending, for all further proceedings. On August 14, 2013, other 
defendants filed a motion for clarification in the Frank Action requesting that 
Judge Bryant clarify the order suspending deadlines. 
 
On March 28, 2014, the Court issued a series of rulings disposing of all the 
pending motions in both the Consolidated Action and the Frank Action. Among 
other things, the Court dismissed several causes of action, leaving pending a 
claim for CUTPA violations stemming from Trilegiant's refund mitigation 
strategy and a claim for unjust enrichment. Thereafter, the Court consolidated 
the Frank case into the Consolidated Action. On April 28, 2014 plaintiffs moved 
for leave to appeal the various rulings against them to the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit and to have a partial final judgment entered 
dismissing those claims that the Court had ordered dismissed. The Company filed 
its Answer to the Complaint on May 12, 2014. On March 26, 2015, the Court 
denied plaintiffs' motions and the parties are now engaged in discovery. 
 
  F-32 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Edible Arrangements: 
 
On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court 
for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible 
Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company's use of the terms 
"Fruit Bouquets," "Edible," "Bouquet," "Edible Fruit Arrangements," Edible 
Arrangements," and "DoFruit" and its use of a six petal pineapple slice design 
in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit arrangements constitutes 
trademark infringement, false designation of origin, dilution, and contributory 
infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC (s) 1114 and 1125(a), common 
law unfair competition, and a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes (s) 42-110b (a). The Complaint 
alleges Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the amount of $97,411,000. The 
Complaint requests a declaratory judgment in favor of Edible Arrangements, an 
injunction against the Company's use of the terms and design, an accounting and 
payment of the Company's profits from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a 
trebling of the Company's profits from such sales or of any damages sustained 
by Edible Arrangements, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. On November 24, 
2014, the Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of 
these terms and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of 
the Company's remote subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. 
 
On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the 
Company's subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $ 101,436,000. The Company 
filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer asserts 
substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and 
descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of 
Edible Arrangements' trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and trademark 
misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, 
functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible 
Arrangements' use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the antitrust laws. 
 
The Counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and 
invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements' registrations 
due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary meaning as to 
any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be determined for 
violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act and the 
Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
 
Discovery has begun and Edible Arrangements filed a motion to dismiss the 
Company's Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The 
Company filed its brief in opposition to the motion to dismiss on July 10, 
2015. The parties are awaiting a decision from the Court. By Order dated May 4, 
2015, the court ordered a phasing of the case and bifurcated the antitrust 
Counterclaim from the infringement claims. 
 
The Company believes its Counterclaims to the Edible Arrangements' claims are 
meritorious and that there are substantial defenses to both of the claims above 
and expects to defend the claims vigorously. 
 
There are no assurances that additional legal actions will not be instituted in 
connection with the Company's former post-transaction marketing practices 
involving third party vendors nor can we predict the outcome of any such legal 
action. At this time, we are unable to estimate a possible loss or range of 
possible loss for the aforementioned actions for various reasons, including, 
among others: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings 
are in the very early stages and in the Frank v. Trilegiant Corporation, Inc. 
matter, the court has not yet ruled as to whether the classes will be 
certified, and (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending motions. 
As a result of the foregoing, we have determined that the amount of possible 
loss or range of loss is not reasonably estimable. However, legal matters are 
inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of 
which may be beyond our control. 
 
Note 18. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility 
 
On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio 
warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, 
the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 
2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the 
facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its 
Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in 
its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during 
the holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase 
production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products 
at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and 
distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability 
was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during the fiscal second 
and third quarters of fiscal 2015. The Company does not believe that there will 
be any further significant impact on revenues from this issue beyond the year 
ended June 28, 2015. 
 
  F-33 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
While no insurance recoveries have been recorded to date related to lost sales, 
the Company expects that its property and business interruption insurance will 
cover these losses. 
 
The following table reflects the incremental costs related to the fire and 
related insurance recovery for the year ended June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
Loss on inventory             $ 29,522 
Other fire related costs         3,487 
                                33,009 
Less: Fire related recoveries  (33,009 ) 
Fire related charges, net            - 
  

 
Through June 28, 2015, the Company has incurred fire related costs totaling 
$33.0 million, including a $29.5 million write-down of inventory. Based on the 
provisions of the Company's insurance policies and management's estimates, the 
losses incurred have been reduced by the estimated insurance recoveries. The 
Company has determined that recovery of the incurred losses, including amounts 
related to the retentions described above, is probable and recorded $33.0 
million of insurance recoveries through June 28, 2015. Through June 28, 2015, 
the Company received $30.0 million of insurance proceeds, representing an 
advance of funds. As a result, the insurance receivable balance was $3.0 
million as of June 28, 2015. 
 
  F-34 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
 
 
 
                                    Additions 
Description             Balance at  Charged to   Charged   Deductions-   Balance at 
                                                 to 
 
                        Beginning   Costs        Other     Describe (a)  End of 
                                                 Accounts- 
 
                        of Period   and Expenses Describe                Period 
Reserves and allowances 
deducted from asset 
accounts: 
Reserve for estimated 
doubtful 
accounts-accounts/notes 
receivable 
Year Ended June 28,     $ 2,443,000  $ 1,295,000           $ (1,503,000) $ 2,235,000 
2015 
Year Ended June 29,     $ 2,488,000  $ 1,656,000           $ (1,701,000) $ 2,443,000 
2014 
Year Ended June 30,     $ 2,408,000  $ 1,085,000           $ (1,005,000) $ 2,488,000 
2013 
  

 
(a)   Reduction in reserve due to write-off of accounts/notes receivable 
balances. 
 
S-1 
Exhibit 21.1 
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
 
(as of June 28, 2015) 
 
1-800-FLOWERS Service Support Center, Inc. (New York) 
 
1-800-FLOWERS Team Services, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
1-800-FLOWERS Retail, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM Franchise Co., Inc. (Delaware) 
 
800-FLOWERS, Inc. (New York) 
 
Conroy's Inc. (California) 
 
The Popcorn Factory, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Guarded Realty Holdings, LLC (Delaware) 
 
BloomNet, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
18F California, Inc. (California) 
 
Cheryl & Co. (Ohio) 
 
Floranet Iberia S.L. (Spain) 
 
Fannie May Confections Brands, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Fannie May Confections, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Harry London Candies, Inc. (Ohio) 
 
Fresh Gift Cards, Inc. (Florida) 
 
DesignPac Co., Inc. (Delaware) 
 
DesignPac Gifts, LLC (Illinois) 
 
Napco Marketing Corp. (Delaware) 
 
Fannie May Franchise, LLC (Delaware) 
 
18F Virginia, Inc. (Virginia) 
 
Celebrations.com, LLC (Delaware) 
 
Fine Stationery, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Flowerama of America, Inc. (Iowa) 
 
Greatfoods, LLC (Delaware) 
 
18F UK Holding Company Limited (United Kingdom) 
 
FOL UK Holding Company Limited (United Kingdom) 
 
1-800-Flowers.com DO Brasil Participacoes LTDA (Brazil) 
 
1873349 Ontario Inc. (Canada) 
 
WTN Services LLC (California) 
 
Colonial Gifts Ltd. (UK) 
 
Personalization Universe, LLC (Delaware) 
 
Harry & David Holdings, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Harry and David, LLC (Oregon) 
 
Harry & David Operations, Inc. (Delaware) 
 
Bear Creek Orchards, Inc. (Delaware) 
Exhibit 23.1 
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements: 
 
 
 
679; Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-54590) pertaining to the 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 1999 
     Stock Incentive Plan, 
  

 
 
 
679; Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-119999) pertaining to the 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, and 
  

 
 
 
679; Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-164727) pertaining to the 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, as 
     amended and restated as of October 22, 2009, and 
  

 
 
 
679; Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-192304) pertaining to the 
     1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, as 
     amended and restated as of October 22, 2009, and as amended as of October 
     28, 2011; 
  

 
of our report dated September 13, 2013, with respect to the June 30, 2013 
consolidated financial statements and schedule of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and 
Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. and Subsidiaries for the year ended June 28, 2015. 
 
/s/Ernst & Young LLP 
 
Jericho, New York 
September 11, 2015 
Exhibit 23.2 
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. and subsidiaries 
 
Carle Place, New York 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statements on Form S-8 (No.333-54590, 333-119999, 333-164727 and 333-192304) of 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries of our reports dated September 11, 
2015, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement 
schedule, and the effectiveness of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries 
internal control over financial reporting, which appear in this Form 10-K. 
 
/s/ BDO USA, LLP 
 
Melville, New York 
 
September 11, 2015 
 
Exhibit 31.1 
 
CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 
 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
 
(RULE 13a-14 (a)) 
 
I, James F. McCann, certify that: 
 
 
 
(1) I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.; 
  

 
 
 
(2) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of 
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this 
    report; 
  

 
 
 
(3) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial 
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material 
    respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of 
    the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  

 
 
 
(4) The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for 
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined 
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over 
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  

 
 
 
(a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure 
    controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure 
    that material information relating to the registrant, including its 
    consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those 
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being 
    prepared; 
  

 
 
 
(b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such 
    internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our 
    supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
    financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
    principles; 
  

 
 
 
(c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and 
    procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the 
    effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 
    the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  

 
 
 
(d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control 
    over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent 
    fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
    materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial 
    reporting; and 
  

 
 
 
(5) The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on 
    our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to 
    the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board 
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  

 
 
 
(a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or 
    operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably 
    likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, 
    summarize and report financial information; and 
  

 
 
 
(b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other 
    employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control 
    over financial reporting. 
  

 
 
 
Date: September 11, 2015 /s/ James F. McCann 
 
                         James F. McCann 
                         Chief Executive Officer and 
                         Chairman of the Board of Directors 
  

 
Exhibit 31.2 
 
CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 
 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
 
(RULE 13a-14 (a)) 
 
I, William E. Shea, certify that: 
 
 
 
(1) I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.; 
  

 
 
 
(2) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of 
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this 
    report; 
  

 
 
 
(3) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial 
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material 
    respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of 
    the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  

 
 
 
(4) The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for 
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined 
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over 
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  

 
 
 
(a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure 
    controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure 
    that material information relating to the registrant, including its 
    consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those 
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being 
    prepared; 
  

 
 
 
(b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such 
    internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our 
    supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
    financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
    principles; 
  

 
 
 
(c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and 
    procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the 
    effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 
    the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  

 
 
 
(d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control 
    over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent 
    fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
    materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial 
    reporting; and 
  

 
 
 
(5) The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on 
    our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to 
    the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board 
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  

 
 
 
(a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or 
    operation of internal control over the financial reporting which are 
    reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, 
    process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  

 
 
 
(b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other 
    employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control 
    over financial reporting. 
  

 
 
 
Date: September 11, 2015 /s/ William E. Shea 
 
                         William E. Shea 
                         Senior Vice President, 
                         Treasurer and 
                         Chief Financial Officer 
  

 
Exhibit 32.1 
 
CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officers of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
(the "Company") hereby certifies, to the best of such officers' knowledge, that: 
 
(1) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended June 28, 
2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof 
(the "Report"), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 
Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; as 
amended; and 
 
(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material 
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 /s/James F. McCann 
                          Chief Executive Officer and 
                          Chairman of the Board of 
                          Directors 
  

 
 
 
Dated: September 11, 2015 /s/William E. Shea 
                          Senior Vice President, 
                          Treasurer and 
                          Chief Financial Officer 
  

 
These certifications are furnished pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such 
Act, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Such 
certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in to any 
filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, 
except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates them by 
reference. 
v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Document And    12 Months Ended 
     Entity 
Information (USD 
       $) 
                   Jun. 28, 2015  Dec. 28, 2014  Sep. 04, 2015   Sep. 04, 2015 
                                                Common Class B  Common Class A 
                                                   {Member}        {Member} 
Document 
Information {Line 
Items} 
Entity Registrant 1 800 FLOWERS 
Name              COM INC 
Trading Symbol    flws 
Document Type     10-K 
Current Fiscal            --06-28 
Year End Date 
Entity Common                                        34,030,044      30,900,816 
Stock, Shares 
Outstanding 
Entity Public                     $ 281,000,000 
Float 
Amendment Flag    false 
Entity Central         0001084869 
Index Key 
Entity Current    Yes 
Reporting Status 
Entity Voluntary  No 
Filers 
Entity Filer      Accelerated 
Category          Filer 
Entity Well-known No 
Seasoned Issuer 
Document Period   Jun. 28, 2015 
End Date 
Document Fiscal              2015 
Year Focus 
Document Fiscal   FY 
Period Focus 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
If the value is true, then the document is an amendment to previously-filed/accepted document. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_AmendmentFlag 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:booleanItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
End date of current fiscal year in the format --MM-DD. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_CurrentFiscalYearEndDate 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:gMonthDayItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This is focus fiscal period of the document report. For a first quarter 2006 
quarterly report, which may also provide financial information from prior 
periods, the first fiscal quarter should be given as the fiscal period focus. 
Values: FY, Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, H1, H2, M9, T1, T2, T3, M8, CY. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_DocumentFiscalPeriodFocus 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:fiscalPeriodItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This is focus fiscal year of the document report in CCYY format. For a 2006 
annual report, which may also provide financial information from prior periods, 
fiscal 2006 should be given as the fiscal year focus. Example: 2006. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_DocumentFiscalYearFocus 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:gYearItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_DocumentInformationLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The end date of the period reflected on the cover page if a periodic report. 
For all other reports and registration statements containing historical data, 
it is the date up through which that historical data is presented. If there is 
no historical data in the report, use the filing date. The format of the date 
is CCYY-MM-DD. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_DocumentPeriodEndDate 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:dateItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The type of document being provided (such as 10-K, 10-Q, 485BPOS, etc). The 
document type is limited to the same value as the supporting SEC submission 
type, or the word "Other". 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_DocumentType 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:submissionTypeItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
A unique 10-digit SEC-issued value to identify entities that have filed disclosures with the 
SEC. It is commonly abbreviated as CIK. 
+ References 
Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef 
 
-Publisher SEC 
 
-Name Regulation 12B 
 
-Number 240 
 
-Section 12b 
 
-Subsection 1 
 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityCentralIndexKey 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:centralIndexKeyItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Indicate number of shares or other units outstanding of each of registrant's 
classes of capital or common stock or other ownership interests, if and as 
stated on cover of related periodic report. Where multiple classes or units 
exist define each class/interest by adding class of stock items such as Common 
Class A {Member}, Common Class B {Member} or Partnership Interest {Member} onto 
the Instrument {Domain} of the Entity Listings, Instrument. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Indicate "Yes" or "No" whether registrants (1) have filed all reports required 
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrants 
were required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. This information should be based on the 
registrant's current or most recent filing containing the related disclosure. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityCurrentReportingStatus 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:yesNoItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Indicate whether the registrant is one of the following: (1) Large Accelerated 
Filer, (2) Accelerated Filer, (3) Non-accelerated Filer, (4) Smaller Reporting 
Company (Non-accelerated) or (5) Smaller Reporting Accelerated Filer. 
Definitions of these categories are stated in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
This information should be based on the registrant's current or most recent 
filing containing the related disclosure. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityFilerCategory 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:filerCategoryItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
State aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by 
non-affiliates computed by reference to price at which the common equity was 
last sold, or average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last 
business day of registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. The 
public float should be reported on the cover page of the registrants form 10K. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityPublicFloat 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The exact name of the entity filing the report as specified in its charter, which is required by 
forms filed with the SEC. 
+ References 
Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef 
 
-Publisher SEC 
 
-Name Regulation 12B 
 
-Number 240 
 
-Section 12b 
 
-Subsection 1 
 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityRegistrantName 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:normalizedStringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Indicate "Yes" or "No" if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 
or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityVoluntaryFilers 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:yesNoItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Indicate "Yes" or "No" if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as 
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Is used on Form Type: 10-K, 10-Q, 
8-K, 20-F, 6-K, 10-K/A, 10-Q/A, 20-F/A, 6-K/A, N-CSR, N-Q, N-1A. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_EntityWellKnownSeasonedIssuer 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        dei:yesNoItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Trading symbol of an instrument as listed on an exchange. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             dei_TradingSymbol 
Namespace Prefix: dei_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:normalizedStringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
        Consolidated Balance Sheets (USD $)          Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
      In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Current assets: 
Cash and cash equivalents                                 $ 27,940       $ 5,203 
Receivables, net                                            16,191        13,339 
Insurance receivable                                         2,979 
Inventories                                                 93,163        58,520 
Deferred tax assets                                          4,873         5,156 
Prepaid and other                                           14,822         9,600 
Total current assets                                       159,968        91,818 
Property, plant and equipment, net                         170,100        60,147 
Goodwill                                                    77,097        60,166 
Other intangibles, net                                      82,125        44,616 
Deferred tax assets                                                        2,002 
Other assets                                                12,656         8,820 
Total assets                                               501,946       267,569 
Current liabilities: 
Accounts payable                                            35,425        24,447 
Accrued expenses                                            73,639        49,517 
Current maturities of long-term debt                        14,543           343 
Total current liabilities                                  123,607        74,307 
Long-term debt                                             117,563             0 
Deferred tax liabilities                                    42,680           649 
Other liabilities                                            7,840         6,495 
Total liabilities                                          291,690        81,451 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 17) 
Stockholders' equity: 
Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 10,000,000 shares 
authorized, none issued 
Additional paid-in capital                                 319,108       305,510 
Retained deficit                                          (48,278)      (68,565) 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                         (371)          (46) 
Treasury stock, at cost, 11,874,475 and 10,818,437        (62,832)      (54,472) 
Class A shares in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and 
5,280,000 Class B shares in 2015 and 2014 
Total 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. stockholders' equity         208,449       183,228 
Noncontrolling interest in subsidiary                        1,807         2,890 
Total equity                                               210,256       186,118 
Total liabilities and equity                               501,946       267,569 
Common Class A {Member} 
Stockholders' equity: 
Common stock                                                   429           381 
Common Class B {Member} 
Stockholders' equity: 
Common stock                                                 $ 393         $ 420 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Amount due from an insurance company when the Company has suffered a loss 
covered under an insurance policy. For classified balance sheets, represents 
the current amount receivable, that is amounts expected to be collected within 
one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_InsuranceReceivableCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccountsPayableCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccountsReceivableNetCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccruedLiabilitiesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AdditionalPaidInCapital 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Assets 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AssetsCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AssetsCurrentAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingencies 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommonStockValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsLiabilitiesNetCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsLiabilitiesNetNoncurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxLiabilitiesNoncurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IntangibleAssetsNetExcludingGoodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Liabilities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LiabilitiesAndStockholdersEquity 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LiabilitiesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LiabilitiesCurrentAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtAndCapitalLeaseObligations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtAndCapitalLeaseObligationsCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_MinorityInterest 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherAssetsNoncurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherLiabilitiesNoncurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PreferredStockValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PrepaidExpenseAndOtherAssetsCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockholdersEquity 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockholdersEquityAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_StockholdersEquityIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (Parentheticals) (USD $) Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
Preferred stock par value (in Dollars per share)            $ 0.01        $ 0.01 
Preferred stock, shares authorized                      10,000,000    10,000,000 
Preferred stock, shares issued                                   0             0 
Common Class A {Member} 
Common stock, par value (in Dollars per share)              $ 0.01        $ 0.01 
Common stock, shares authorized                        200,000,000   200,000,000 
Common stock, shares issued                             42,875,291    38,119,398 
Treasurey stock, shares                                 11,874,475    10,818,437 
Common Class B {Member} 
Common stock, par value (in Dollars per share)              $ 0.01        $ 0.01 
Common stock, shares authorized                        200,000,000   200,000,000 
Common stock, shares issued                             39,310,044    42,058,594 
Treasurey stock, shares                                  5,280,000     5,280,000 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommonStockParOrStatedValuePerShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommonStockSharesAuthorized 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommonStockSharesIssued 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PreferredStockParOrStatedValuePerShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PreferredStockSharesAuthorized 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PreferredStockSharesIssued 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockShares 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Consolidated Statements of Income                12 Months Ended 
               (USD $) 
In Thousands, except Per Share data, 
     unless otherwise specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Net revenues                            $ 1,121,506     $ 756,345     $ 735,497 
Cost of revenues                            634,311       440,672       430,305 
Gross profit                                487,195       315,673       305,192 
Operating expenses: 
Marketing and sales                         299,801       194,847       186,720 
Technology and development                   34,745        22,518        21,700 
General and administrative                   85,908        54,754        52,188 
Depreciation and amortization                29,124        19,848        18,798 
Total operating expenses                    449,578       291,967       279,406 
Operating income                             37,617        23,706        25,786 
Interest expense and other, net               7,303         1,357           991 
Income from continuing operations            30,314        22,349        24,795 
before income taxes 
Income tax expense from continuing           10,930         8,403         9,073 
operations 
Income from continuing operations            19,384        13,946        15,722 
Loss from discontinued operations,                           (86)       (1,889) 
net of tax 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued                           815       (1,512) 
operations, net of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued                               729       (3,401) 
operations, net of tax 
Net income                                   19,384        14,675        12,321 
Less: Net loss attributable to                (903)         (697) 
noncontrolling interest 
Net income attributable to                 $ 20,287      $ 15,372      $ 12,321 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Basic net income (loss) per common 
share attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing operations (in               $ 0.31        $ 0.23        $ 0.24 
Dollars per share) 
From discontinued operations (in             $ 0.00        $ 0.01      $ (0.05) 
Dollars per share) 
Basic net income per common share (in        $ 0.31        $ 0.24        $ 0.19 
Dollars per share) 
Diluted net income (loss) per common 
share attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
From continuing operations (in               $ 0.30        $ 0.22        $ 0.24 
Dollars per share) 
From discontinued operations (in             $ 0.00        $ 0.01      $ (0.05) 
Dollars per share) 
Diluted net income per common share          $ 0.30        $ 0.23        $ 0.19 
(in Dollars per share) 
Weighted average shares used in the 
calculation of net income (loss) per 
common share: 
Basic (in Shares)                            64,976        64,035        64,369 
Diluted (in Shares)                          67,602        66,460        66,792 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BasicNetIncomeLossPerCommonShareAttributableTo1800FlowersComIncAbstract 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DilutedNetIncomeLossPerCommonShareAttributableTo1800FlowersComIncAbstract 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_WeightedAverageSharesUsedInTheCalculationOfNetIncomeLossPerCommonShareAbstract 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommunicationsAndInformationTechnology 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CostOfGoodsAndServicesSold 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DepreciationAndAmortization 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationGainLossOnDisposalOfDiscontinuedOperationNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisposalGroupIncludingDiscontinuedOperationOperatingIncomeLoss 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerShareBasic 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerShareDiluted 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GeneralAndAdministrativeExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GrossProfit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeIncomeTaxesMinorityInterestAndIncomeLossFromEquityMethodInvestments 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsPerBasicShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsPerDilutedShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromDiscontinuedOperationsNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromDiscontinuedOperationsNetOfTaxPerBasicShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromDiscontinuedOperationsNetOfTaxPerDilutedShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InterestIncomeExpenseNonoperatingNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetIncomeLossAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetIncomeLossAvailableToCommonStockholdersBasic 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingExpenses 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingExpensesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingIncomeLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProfitLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SalesRevenueNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SellingAndMarketingExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_WeightedAverageNumberOfDilutedSharesOutstanding 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_WeightedAverageNumberOfSharesOutstandingBasic 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
     Consolidated Statements of                    12 Months Ended 
    Comprehensive Income (USD $) 
   In Thousands, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Net income                                 $ 19,384      $ 14,675      $ 12,321 
Other comprehensive income (loss)             (505)          (75)            17 
(currency translation) 
Comprehensive income                         18,879        14,600        12,338 
Less: 
Net loss attributable to                      (903)         (697) 
noncontrolling interest 
Other comprehensive loss (currency            (180)          (29) 
translation) attributable to 
noncontrolling interest 
Comprehensive loss attributable to          (1,083)         (726) 
noncontrolling interest 
Comprehensive income (loss)                $ 19,962      $ 15,326      $ 12,338 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_LessAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ComprehensiveIncomeNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ComprehensiveIncomeNetOfTaxAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ComprehensiveIncomeNetOfTaxIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetIncomeLossAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_OtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProfitLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Consolidated    Common    Common     Common    Additional  Retained      AOCI      Treasury   Parent   Noncontrolling Total USD 
Statements of   Class A    Class A    Class B    Paid-in    Earnings  Attributable   Stock    {Member}     Interest       ($) 
Stockholders'   {Member}  {Member}   {Member}    Capital    {Member}   to Parent    {Member}   USD ($)   {Member} USD 
 Equity (USD     Common               Common     {Member}   USD ($)   {Member} USD  USD ($)                  ($) 
      $)         Stock                 Stock     USD ($)                  ($) 
                {Member}             {Member} 
                USD ($)               USD ($) 
In Thousands, 
 except Share 
     data 
Balance at          $ 344                 $ 421  $ 293,814 $ (96,258)       $ (17) $ (36,556) $ 161,748                $ 161,748 
Jul. 01, 2012 
Balance,       34,465,207            42,138,465                                    12,047,166 
shares (in 
Shares) at 
Jul. 01, 2012 
Net income                                                     12,321                            12,321                   12,321 
Change in                                                                       17                   17                       17 
value of cash 
flow hedge 
Conversion of      13,000              (13,000) 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Stock-based            16                            4,267                                        4,283                    4,283 
compensation 
Stock-based     1,610,271 
compensation, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Exercise of             2                              533                                          535                      535 
stock options 
Exercise of       191,947 
stock options, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Tax asset                                             (34)                                         (34)                     (34) 
shortfall from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of                                                                        (9,599)   (9,599)                  (9,599) 
Class A 
treasury stock 
Acquisition of                                                                      2,490,065                          2,490,065 
Class A 
treasury 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Balance at            362                   421    298,580   (83,937)                (46,155)   169,271                  169,271 
Jun. 30, 2013 
Balance,       36,280,425            42,125,465                                    14,537,231 
shares (in 
Shares) at 
Jun. 30, 2013 
Net income                                                     15,372                            15,372          (697)    14,675 
Translation                                                                   (46)                 (46)           (29)      (75) 
adjustment 
Conversion of           1                   (1) 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock 
Conversion of      66,871              (66,871) 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Stock-based            16                            4,648                                        4,664                    4,664 
compensation 
Stock-based     1,608,052 
compensation, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Exercise of             2                              525                                          527                      527 
stock options 
Exercise of       164,050 
stock options, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Excess tax                                           1,757                                        1,757                    1,757 
benefit from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of                                                                        (8,317)   (8,317)                  (8,317) 
Class A 
treasury stock 
Acquisition of                                                                      1,561,206                          1,561,206 
Class A 
treasury 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Noncontrolling                                                                                                   3,616     3,616 
interest 
Balance at            381                   420    305,510   (68,565)         (46)   (54,472)   183,228          2,890   186,118 
Jun. 29, 2014 
Balance,       38,119,398            42,058,594                                    16,098,437 
shares (in 
Shares) at 
Jun. 29, 2014 
Net income                                                     20,287                            20,287          (903)    19,384 
Translation                                                                  (325)                (325)          (180)     (505) 
adjustment 
Conversion of          27                  (27) 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock 
Conversion of   2,748,550 2,748,550 (2,748,550) 
Class B stock 
into Class A 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Stock-based            12                            5,950                                        5,962                    5,962 
compensation 
Stock-based     1,154,173 
compensation, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Exercise of             9                            5,533                                        5,542                    5,542 
stock options 
Exercise of       853,170 
stock options, 
shares (in 
Shares) 
Excess tax                                           2,115                                        2,115                    2,115 
benefit from 
stock-based 
compensation 
Acquisition of                                                                        (8,360)   (8,360)                  (8,360) 
Class A 
treasury stock 
Acquisition of                                                                      1,056,038                          1,056,038 
Class A 
treasury 
stock, shares 
(in Shares) 
Balance at          $ 429                 $ 393  $ 319,108 $ (48,278)      $ (371) $ (62,832) $ 208,449        $ 1,807 $ 210,256 
Jun. 28, 2015 
Balance,       42,875,291            39,310,044                                    17,154,475 
shares (in 
Shares) at 
Jun. 28, 2015 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_AdjustmentsToAdditionalPaidInCapitalIncomeTaxDeficiencyFromShareBasedCompensation 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_AdjustmentsToAdditionalPaidInCapitalTaxEffectFromShareBasedCompensation 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommonStockSharesOutstanding 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NoncontrollingInterestIncreaseFromBusinessCombination 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_OtherComprehensiveIncomeLossForeignCurrencyTransactionAndTranslationAdjustmentNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_OtherComprehensiveIncomeUnrealizedGainLossOnDerivativesArisingDuringPeriodNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProfitLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_StockholdersEquityIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodSharesConversionOfConvertibleSecurities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodSharesShareBasedCompensation 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodSharesStockOptionsExercised 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodValueConversionOfConvertibleSecurities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodValueShareBasedCompensation 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodValueStockOptionsExercised 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockSharesAcquired 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockValueAcquiredCostMethod 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                12 Months Ended 
                 (USD $) 
In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
                                          Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Operating activities: 
Net income                                     $ 19,384      $ 14,675      $ 12,321 
Operating activities of discontinued                            1,587         (179) 
operations 
Loss/(gain) on sale of discontinued                           (1,300)         2,348 
operations 
Depreciation and amortization                    29,124        19,848        18,798 
Amortization of deferred financing costs          1,501           306           420 
Deferred income taxes                             2,471         1,454         (811) 
Non-cash impact of write-offs related to         29,522 
warehouse fire 
Bad debt expense                                  1,295         1,656         1,085 
Stock-based compensation                          5,962         4,664         4,283 
Excess tax benefit from stock-based             (2,550)       (1,837)         (739) 
compensation 
Other non-cash items                              1,439           755           483 
Changes in operating items, excluding the 
effects of acquisitions: 
Receivables                                       8,331       (1,893)       (4,108) 
Insurance receivable                            (2,979) 
Inventories                                      26,390       (2,564)       (1,823) 
Prepaid and other                                 8,047           436       (1,655) 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses           (2,235)         2,660         4,368 
Other assets                                    (1,058)         (262)         (609) 
Other liabilities                                 1,089         2,355           463 
Net cash provided by operating activities       125,733        42,539        34,645 
Investing activities: 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired            (131,994)       (9,000)       (3,700) 
Capital expenditures                           (32,572)      (22,985)      (20,044) 
Other, net                                          963           (3)         (786) 
Investing activities of discontinued                              500 
operations 
Net cash used in investing activities         (163,603)      (31,488)      (24,530) 
Financing activities: 
Acquisition of treasury stock                   (8,360)       (8,317)       (9,599) 
Excess tax benefit from stock based               2,550         1,837           739 
compensation 
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock          5,542           527           535 
options 
Proceeds from bank borrowings                   239,500       127,000        62,000 
Repayment of notes payable and bank           (172,983)     (127,052)      (91,250) 
borrowings 
Debt issuance cost                              (5,642)                     (1,234) 
Other                                                               3           (6) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing         60,607       (6,002)      (38,815) 
activities 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents          22,737         5,049      (28,700) 
Cash and cash equivalents: 
Beginning of year                                 5,203           154        28,854 
End of year                                    $ 27,940       $ 5,203         $ 154 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_ChangesInOperatingItemsExcludingTheEffectsOfAcquisitionsAbstract 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The component of income tax expense for the period representing the increase 
(decrease) in the entity's deferred tax assets and liabilities pertaining to 
continuing and discontinued operations. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DeferredIncomeTaxExpenseBenefitContinuingOperationsDiscontinuedOperations 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_FinancingActivitiesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_InvestingActivitiesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The non-cash impact of write-offs during the period that were a result of a warehouse fire. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NoncashImpactOfWriteoffsRelatedToWarehouseFire 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_OperatingActivitiesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AmortizationOfFinancingCosts 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecrease 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_CashProvidedByUsedInInvestingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DepreciationDepletionAndAmortization 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationGainLossFromDisposalOfDiscontinuedOperationBeforeIncomeTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationIncomeLossFromDiscontinuedOperationBeforeIncomeTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ExcessTaxBenefitFromShareBasedCompensationFinancingActivities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ExcessTaxBenefitFromShareBasedCompensationOperatingActivities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInAccountsPayableAndAccruedLiabilities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInAccountsReceivable 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInInventories 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInOtherOperatingAssets 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInOtherOperatingLiabilities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInOtherReceivables 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncreaseDecreaseInPrepaidDeferredExpenseAndOtherAssets 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetCashProvidedByUsedInFinancingActivities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetCashProvidedByUsedInInvestingActivities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetCashProvidedByUsedInOperatingActivities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherNoncashIncomeExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsForProceedsFromOtherInvestingActivities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsForRepurchaseOfCommonStock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsOfDebtIssuanceCosts 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesNetOfCashAcquired 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsToAcquirePropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProceedsFromBankDebt 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProceedsFromPaymentsForOtherFinancingActivities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProceedsFromStockOptionsExercised 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProfitLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProvisionForDoubtfulAccounts 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_RepaymentsOfDebt 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensation 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
       Supplemental Cash Flow Information                  12 Months Ended 
                                                            Jun. 28, 2015 
Supplemental Cash Flow Elements {Abstract} 
Cash Flow, Supplemental Disclosures {Text Block} Supplemental Cash Flow Information: 
  

 
 
 
- Interest paid amounted to $4.3 million $1.0 million and $1.1 million, for the 
  years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
  

 
 
 
- The Company paid income taxes of approximately $5.1 million, $7.0 million and 
  $8.3 million, net of tax refunds received, for the years ended June 28, 2015, 
  June 29, 2014, and June 30, 2013, respectively. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashFlowSupplementalDisclosuresTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SupplementalCashFlowElementsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Description of Business                 12 Months Ended 
                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block {Abstract} 
Nature of Operations {Text Block} Note 1. Description of Business 
 
                                  For nearly 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS(R) 
                                  (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) has 
                                  been helping deliver smiles for our customers 
                                  with gifts for every occasion, including 
                                  fresh flowers and the finest selection of 
                                  plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, 
                                  confections, candles, balloons and plush 
                                  stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile 
                                  Guarantee(R) backs every gift. 
 
                                  The Company&#x2019;s BloomNet(R) 
                                  international floral wire service 
                                  (www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range 
                                  of quality products and value-added services 
                                  designed to help professional florists grow 
                                  their businesses profitably. The 
                                  1-800-FLOWERS.COM &#x201c;Gift Shop&#x201d; 
                                  also includes gourmet gifts such as premium, 
                                  gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items 
                                  from Harry & David(R) (1-877-322-1200 or 
                                  www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty 
                                  treats from The Popcorn Factory(R) 
                                  (1-800-541-2676 or 
                                  www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies and baked 
                                  gifts from Cheryl&#x2019;s(R) (1-800-443-8124 
                                  or www.cheryls.com); premium chocolates and 
                                  confections from Fannie May(R) 
                                  (www.fanniemay.com and www.harrylondon.com); 
                                  gift baskets and towers from 
                                  1-800-Baskets.com(R) (www.1800baskets.com); 
                                  premium English muffins and other breakfast 
                                  treats from Wolferman&#x2019;s 
                                  (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); 
                                  carved fresh fruit arrangements from 
                                  FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); 
                                  and top quality steaks and chops from Stock 
                                  Yards(R) (www.stockyards.com). 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NatureOfOperations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
    Note 2 - Significant Accounting                 12 Months Ended 
               Policies 
                                                     Jun. 28, 2015 
Accounting Policies {Abstract} 
Organization, Consolidation, Basis of   Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies 
Presentation, Business Description and 
Accounting Policies {Text Block} 
 
                                        Basis of Presentation 
 
                                        The consolidated financial statements 
                                        include the accounts of 
                                        1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its 
                                        subsidiaries (collectively, the 
                                        &#x201c;Company&#x201d;). All 
                                        significant intercompany accounts and 
                                        transactions have been eliminated in 
                                        consolidation. During fiscal 2015 and 
                                        2014, approximately 1% and 2%, 
                                        respectively, of consolidated net 
                                        revenue came from international 
                                        sources, whereas in fiscal 2013 
                                        virtually all of the Company&#x2019;s 
                                        revenues had been derived from domestic 
                                        sources. 
 
                                        During the fourth quarter of fiscal 
                                        2013, the Company made the strategic 
                                        decision to divest the e-commerce and 
                                        procurement businesses of its 
                                        Winetasting Network subsidiary in order 
                                        to focus on growth opportunities in its 
                                        Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets business 
                                        segment. The Company closed on the sale 
                                        of its Winetasting Network business on 
                                        December 31, 2013. The Company has 
                                        classified the results of the 
                                        e-commerce and procurement business of 
                                        The Winetasting Network as a 
                                        discontinued operation for the fiscal 
                                        years 2014 and 2013. 
 
                                        Fiscal Year 
 
                                        The Company&#x2019;s fiscal year is a 
                                        52- or 53-week period ending on the 
                                        Sunday nearest to June 30. Fiscal years 
                                        2015, 2014 and 2013 consisted of 52 
                                        weeks which ended on June 28, 2015, 
                                        June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
                                        respectively. 
 
                                        Use of Estimates 
 
                                        The preparation of financial statements 
                                        in conformity with U.S. generally 
                                        accepted accounting principles requires 
                                        management to make estimates and 
                                        assumptions that affect the amounts 
                                        reported in the financial statements 
                                        and accompanying notes. Actual results 
                                        could differ from those estimates. 
 
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
                                        Cash and cash equivalents consist of 
                                        demand deposits with banks, highly 
                                        liquid money market funds, United 
                                        States government securities, overnight 
                                        repurchase agreements and commercial 
                                        paper with maturities of three months 
                                        or less when purchased. 
 
                                        Inventories 
 
                                        Inventories are valued at the lower of 
                                        cost or market using the first-in, 
                                        first-out method of accounting. 
 
                                        Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
                                        Property, plant and equipment are 
                                        stated at cost less accumulated 
                                        depreciation and amortization. 
                                        Depreciation expense is computed using 
                                        the straight-line method over the 
                                        assets&#x2019; estimated useful lives. 
                                        Amortization of leasehold improvements 
                                        and capital leases is computed using 
                                        the straight-line method over the 
                                        shorter of the estimated useful lives 
                                        and the initial lease terms. The 
                                        Company capitalizes certain internal 
                                        and external costs incurred to acquire 
                                        or develop internal-use software. 
                                        Capitalized software costs are 
                                        amortized on a straight-line basis over 
                                        the estimated useful life of the 
                                        software. Orchards in production, 
                                        consisting of direct labor and 
                                        materials, supervision and other items, 
                                        are capitalized as part of capital 
                                        projects in progress &#x2013; orchards 
                                        until the orchards produce fruit in 
                                        commercial quantities. Upon attaining 
                                        commercial levels of production the 
                                        capital investments in these orchards 
                                        are recorded as land improvements. 
                                        Estimated useful lives are periodically 
                                        reviewed, and where appropriate, 
                                        changes are made prospectively. The 
                                        Company&#x2019;s property plant and 
                                        equipment is depreciated using the 
                                        following estimated lives: 
  

 
 
 
Building and building improvements (years)           10 40 
Leasehold improvements (years)                        3 10 
Furniture, fixtures and production equipment (years)  3 10 
Software (years)                                      3  7 
Orchards in production and land improvements         15 35 
  

 
Property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the 
carrying amounts are not recoverable. 
 
Goodwill 
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the 
net assets acquired in each business combination, with the carrying value of 
the Company&#x2019;s goodwill allocated to its reporting units, in accordance 
with the acquisition method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but it is 
subject to an annual assessment for impairment, which the Company performs 
during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances 
change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. 
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. The 
Company identifies its reporting units by assessing whether the components of 
its operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial 
information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly 
reviews the operating results of those components. Goodwill impairment testing 
involves a two-step process. The first step requires comparison of the fair 
value of each of the reporting units to the respective carrying value. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit is less than the fair value, no impairment 
exists and the second step is not performed. If the carrying value of the 
reporting unit is higher than the fair value, the second step must be performed 
to compute the amount of the goodwill impairment, if any. In the second step, 
the impairment is computed by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting 
unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount 
of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. 
 
The Company generally estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using an 
equal weighting of the income and market approaches. The Company uses industry 
accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by 
various levels of management and, in certain instances, the Company engages 
third-party valuation specialists. Under the income approach, the Company uses 
a discounted cash flow methodology which requires management to make 
significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross 
profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual 
growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market 
approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method. Under this 
method the Company utilizes information from comparable publicly traded 
companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the 
reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the 
operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, in order to obtain 
their respective fair values. The Company also reconciles the aggregate fair 
values of its reporting units determined in the first step (as described above) 
to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control 
premium. 
 
Other Intangibles, net 
 
Other intangibles consist of definite-lived intangible assets (such as 
investment in licenses, customer lists, and others) and indefinite-lived 
intangible assets (such as acquired trade names and trademarks). The cost of 
definite-lived intangible assets is amortized to reflect the pattern of 
economic benefits consumed, over the estimated periods benefited, ranging from 
3 to 16 years, while indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. 
 
Long-lived assets, such as definite-lived intangibles and property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. When such 
events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed 
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual 
disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected 
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then an impairment 
charge would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair 
value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 
 
The Company tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least 
annually, during the fourth quarter, or whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. The 
impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating 
a fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair 
value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, 
impairment is recognized for the difference. To determine fair value of other 
indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company uses an income approach, the 
relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a 
third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to 
use the comparable asset. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets&#x2019; fair 
values require significant judgments in determining both the assets&#x2019; 
estimated cash flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates 
applied to those cash flows to determine fair value. 
 
Business Combinations 
 
The Company accounts for business combinations in accordance with ASC Topic 805 
which requires, among other things, the acquiring entity in a business 
combination to recognize the fair value of all the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed; the recognition of acquisition-related costs in the 
consolidated results of operations; the recognition of restructuring costs in 
the consolidated results of operations for which the acquirer becomes obligated 
after the acquisition date; and contingent purchase consideration to be 
recognized at their fair values on the acquisition date with subsequent 
adjustments recognized in the consolidated results of operations. The fair 
values assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired are determined 
primarily by using an income approach which is based on assumptions and 
estimates made by management. Significant assumptions utilized in the income 
approach are based on company specific information and projections which are 
not observable in the market and are therefore considered Level 3 measurements. 
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identified assets 
and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Operating results of the acquired 
entity are reflected in the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial statements 
from date of acquisition. 
 
Deferred Catalog Costs 
 
The Company capitalizes the costs of producing and distributing its catalogs. 
These costs are amortized in direct proportion to actual sales from the 
corresponding catalog over a period not to exceed 12 months. Included within 
prepaid and other current assets was $2.5 million and $0.2 million at June 28, 
2015 and June 29, 2014 respectively, relating to prepaid catalog expenses. 
 
Investments 
 
The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of 
private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity 
method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant 
influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is 
generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the 
voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such 
as representation on the investee&#x2019;s Board of Directors, are considered 
in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records 
equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to 
reflect the Company&#x2019;s share of the earnings or losses of the investee. 
The Company&#x2019;s equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest 
in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, 
that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was 
$2.9 million as of June 28, 2015 and $3.2 million as of June 29, 2014, and is 
included in Other assets within the consolidated balance sheets. The 
Company&#x2019;s equity in the net income (loss) of Flores Online for each of 
the years ended June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014 was $(0.3) million and $(0.6) 
million. 
 
Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where 
the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are 
accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally 
recorded at cost, and are included within Other assets in the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the 
Company&#x2019;s cost method investments was $0.7 million as of June 28, 2015 
and $0.8 million as of June 29, 2014. In addition, the Company had notes 
receivable from a company it maintains an investment in of $0.3 million as of 
June 28, 2015 and $0.5 million as of June 29, 2014. As described in Note 4 
&#x201c;Acquisitions&#x201d;, on December 3, 2013, the Company increased its 
investment in iFlorist, resulting in a majority ownership interest (56%), 
through the conversion of notes receivable and the purchase of additional 
shares from the Company&#x2019;s founders. The acquisition of a majority 
interest in iFlorist resulted in the consolidation of iFlorist&#x2019;s 
operations. 
 
The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its 
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (&#x201c;NQDC Plan&#x201d;). These 
investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and 
are included in Other assets in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 10). 
 
Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative 
information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair 
value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge 
is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. 
 
Concentration of Credit Risk 
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant 
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents 
and accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with 
high quality financial institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect 
to accounts receivable is limited due to the Company's large number of 
customers and their dispersion throughout the United States, and the fact that 
a substantial portion of receivables are related to balances owed by major 
credit card companies. Allowances relating to consumer, corporate and franchise 
accounts receivable ($2.2 million at June 28, 2015 and $2.4 million at June 29, 
2014) have been recorded based upon previous experience and management&#x2019;s 
evaluation. 
 
Revenue Recognition 
 
Net revenues are generated by e-commerce operations from the Company&#x2019;s 
online and telephonic sales channels as well as other operations 
(retail/wholesale) and primarily consist of the selling price of merchandise, 
service or outbound shipping charges, net of discounts, returns and credits. 
Net revenues are recognized primarily upon product delivery and do not include 
sales tax. Net revenues generated by the Company&#x2019;s BloomNet Wire Service 
operations include membership fees as well as other products and service 
offerings to florists. Membership fees are recognized monthly in the period 
earned, and products sales are recognized upon product shipment with shipping 
terms primarily FOB shipping point. 
 
Initial franchise fees are recognized in income when the Company has 
substantially performed or satisfied all material services or conditions 
relating to the sale of the franchise and the fees are nonrefundable. Area 
development fees are nonrefundable and are recognized in income on a pro-rata 
basis when the conditions for revenue recognition under the individual area 
development agreements are met. Both initial franchise fees and area 
development fees are generally recognized upon the opening of a franchise store 
or upon termination of the agreement between the Company and the franchisee. 
 
Cost of Revenues 
 
Cost of revenues consists primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid 
directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from 
inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and 
outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues includes labor and 
facility costs related to manufacturing and production operations. 
 
Marketing and Sales 
 
Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional 
expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search expenses, retail store 
and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues), and 
customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the 
Company&#x2019;s departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising 
activities. 
 
The Company expenses all advertising costs, with the exception of catalog costs 
(see Deferred Catalog Costs above), at the time the advertisement is first 
shown. Advertising expense was $130.6 million, $83.0 million and $77.9 million 
for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively. 
 
Technology and Development 
 
Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating 
expenses of the Company&#x2019;s information technology group, costs associated 
with its websites, including hosting, content development and maintenance and 
support costs related to the Company&#x2019;s order entry, customer service, 
fulfillment and database systems. Costs associated with the acquisition or 
development of software for internal use are capitalized if the software is 
expected to have a useful life beyond one year and amortized over the 
software&#x2019;s useful life, typically three to seven years. Costs associated 
with repair maintenance or the development of website content are expensed as 
incurred as the useful lives of such software modifications are less than one 
year. 
 
Stock-Based Compensation 
 
The Company records compensation expense associated with restricted stock 
awards and other forms of equity compensation based upon the fair value of 
stock-based awards as measured at the grant date. The cost associated with 
share-based awards that are subject solely to time-based vesting requirements, 
less expected forfeitures, is recognized over the awards&#x2019; service period 
for the entire award on a straight-line basis. The cost associated with 
performance-based equity awards is recognized for each tranche over the service 
period, based on an assessment of the likelihood that the applicable 
performance goals will be achieved. 
 
Derivatives and hedging 
 
The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes, 
but rather, on occasion to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
When entering into these transactions, the Company has managed its floating 
rate debt using interest rate swaps in order to reduce its exposure to the 
impact of changing interest rates on its consolidated results of operations and 
future cash outflows for interest. The Company did not have any open derivative 
positions at June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014. 
 
Income Taxes 
 
The Company uses the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. 
The Company has established deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary 
differences between the financial reporting bases and the income tax bases of 
its assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when 
such assets or liabilities are realized or settled. The Company recognizes as a 
deferred tax asset, the tax benefits associated with losses related to 
operations. Realization of these deferred tax assets assumes that we will be 
able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that these assets will be 
realized. The factors that the Company considers in assessing the likelihood of 
realization include the forecast of future taxable income and available tax 
planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax 
assets. 
 
The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if 
it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on 
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the 
position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a 
particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a 
greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The amount of 
unrecognized tax benefits (&#x201c;UTBs&#x201d;) is adjusted as appropriate for 
changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing 
tax law, new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new 
information obtainedduring a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. 
We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to 
UTBs in income tax expense. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are 
required in determining if the &#x201c;more likely than not&#x201d; standard 
has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. 
 
Net Income (Loss) Per Share 
 
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted-average 
number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income 
(loss) per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common and 
dilutive common equivalent shares (consisting primarily of employee stock 
options and unvested restricted stock awards) outstanding during the period. 
Diluted net loss per share excludes the effect of potential common shares 
(consisting primarily of employee stock options and unvested restricted stock 
awards) that would be antidilutive. 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, &#x201c;Customer's Accounting 
for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement.&#x201d; This standard provides 
guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement 
contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use 
software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to 
apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements 
entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is 
effective for the Company&#x2019;s fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. We are 
currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, &#x201c;Simplifying the 
Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs,&#x201d; which amends ASC 835-30, 
&#x201c;Interest &#x2013; Imputation of Interest.&#x201d; In order to simplify 
the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt 
issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the 
balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with 
the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the 
guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are 
similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, 
thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further 
states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future 
economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company&#x2019;s 
fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. 
 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, &#x201c;Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers.&#x201d; This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of 
revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with 
customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and 
uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended 
guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company&#x2019;s fiscal year 
ending July 1, 2018 and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently 
evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated 
financial statements. 
 
In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, &#x201c;Reporting Discontinued 
Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity,&#x201d; 
which amends ASC 205, &#x201c;Presentation of Financial Statements,&#x201d; and 
ASC 360, &#x201c;Property, Plant, and Equipment.&#x201d; ASU No. 2014-08 amends 
the requirements for reporting discontinued operations and requires additional 
disclosures about discontinued operations. Under the new guidance, only 
disposals representing a strategic shift in operations or that have a major 
effect on the Company's operations and financial results should be presented as 
discontinued operations. This new accounting guidance is effective for the 
Company&#x2019;s fiscal year ending July 3, 2016, and may be applied 
retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting 
this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, &#x201c;Presentation of an 
Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax 
Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists,&#x201d; which amends ASC 740, 
&#x201c;Income Taxes.&#x201d; The amendments provide guidance on the financial 
statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of 
a deferred tax asset or as a liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, 
similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The amendments are 
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning 
after December 15, 2013 and may be applied on either a prospective or 
retrospective basis. The provisions are effective for the Company&#x2019;s 
first quarter of fiscal year ending June 28, 2015. The adoption of these 
provisions did not have a significant impact on the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
Reclassifications 
 
Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to 
the presentation in the current fiscal year. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_OrganizationConsolidationBasisOfPresentationBusinessDescriptionAndAccountingPoliciesTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 3 - Net Income Per Common                 12 Months Ended 
     Share from Continuing 
           Operations 
                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 
Earnings Per Share {Abstract} 
Earnings Per Share {Text Block}  Note 3 &#x2013; Net Income Per Common Share 
                                 from Continuing Operations 
 
                                 The following table sets forth the computation 
                                 of basic and diluted net income per common 
                                 share from continuing operations: 
  

 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 June 30, 2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share data) 
Numerator: 
Income from continuing operations          $ 19,384      $ 13,946      $ 15,722 
Less: Net loss attributable to                (903)         (697)             - 
noncontrolling interest 
Income from continuing operations          $ 20,287      $ 14,643      $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Denominator: 
Weighted average shares outstanding          64,976        64,035        64,369 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Employee stock options (1)                    1,561         1,083           786 
Employee restricted stock awards              1,065         1,342         1,637 
                                              2,626         2,425         2,423 
Adjusted weighted-average shares and         67,602        66,460        66,792 
assumed conversions 
Net income per common share from 
continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Basic                                        $ 0.31        $ 0.23        $ 0.24 
Diluted                                      $ 0.30        $ 0.22        $ 0.24 
  

 
Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.1 million, 1.2 million and 2.0 
million shares for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 
2013, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share 
on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerShareAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerShareTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 4 - Acquisitions                      12 Months Ended 
   and Dispositions 
                                            Jun. 28, 2015 
Business Combinations 
{Abstract} 
Business Combination   Note 4. Acquisitions 
Disclosure {Text 
Block} 
 
                       Acquisition of Harry & David 
 
                       On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its 
                       acquisition of Harry & David, a leading multi-channel 
                       specialty retailer and producer of branded premium 
                       gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other 
                       gifts marketed under the Harry & David brands. The 
                       transaction, for a purchase price of $142.5 million, 
                       includes the Harry & David&#x2019;s brands and websites 
                       as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and 
                       distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, 
                       a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio 
                       and 48 Harry & David retail stores located throughout 
                       the country. 
 
                       During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company 
                       finalized the allocation of the purchase price to the 
                       identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
                       based on its estimates of their fair values on the 
                       acquisition date. The determination of the fair values 
                       of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the 
                       related determination of estimated lives of depreciable 
                       tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires 
                       significant judgment. The estimates and assumptions 
                       include the projected timing and amount of future cash 
                       flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the 
                       future cash flows. Of the acquired intangible assets, 
                       $5.2 million was assigned to customer lists, which are 
                       being amortized over the estimated remaining lives of 
                       between 4 to 11 years, $35.5 million was assigned to 
                       trademarks, $1.1 million was assigned to leasehold 
                       positions and $16.0 million was assigned to goodwill, 
                       which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
                       The goodwill recognized in conjunction with our 
                       acquisition of Harry & David is primarily related to 
                       synergistic value created in terms of both operating 
                       costs and revenue growth opportunities, enhanced 
                       financial and operational scale, and other strategic 
                       benefits. It also includes certain other intangible 
                       assets that do not qualify for separate recognition, 
                       such as an assembled workforce. 
 
                       The following table summarizes the final allocation of 
                       the purchase price to the estimated fair values of 
                       assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of 
                       the acquisition, as well as adjustments made during the 
                       measurement period: 
  

 
 
 
                          Harry & David Preliminary Measurement Period    Harry & David 
                          Purchase Price            Adjustments           Final 
                          Allocation 
 
                                                    (1)                   Purchase Price 
                                                                          Allocation 
                          (in thousands)            (in thousands)        (in thousands) 
Current assets                            $ 124,245               $ 2,023          $ 126,268 
Intangible assets                            17,209                24,618             41,827 
Goodwill                                     38,635              (22,593)             16,042 
Property, plant and                          91,023                14,056            105,079 
equipment 
Other assets                                    111                 (242)              (131) 
Total assets acquired                       271,223                17,862            289,085 
Current liabilities,                        104,335                   178            104,513 
including short-term 
debt 
Deferred tax liabilities                     23,252                18,796             42,048 
Other liabilities assumed                     1,136               (1,112)                 24 
Total liabilities assumed                   128,723                17,862            146,585 
Net assets acquired                       $ 142,500                     -          $ 142,500 
  

 
 
 
(1) The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of the 
    valuations related to property plant and equipment and intangible assets 
    and resulted in the following: an increase in property, plant and equipment 
    and intangible assets, with the related increase in long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and corresponding decrease in goodwill. The measurement period 
    adjustments did not have a significant impact on the Company&#x2019;s 
    condensed consolidated statements of income for the year ended June 28, 
    2015. 
  

 
The estimated fair value of the acquired work in process and finished goods 
inventory was determined utilizing the income approach. The income approach 
estimates the fair value of the inventory based on the net retail value of the 
inventory less operating expenses and a reasonable profit allowance. Raw 
materials inventory was valued at book value, as there have not been any 
significant price fluctuations or other events that would materially change the 
cost to replace the raw materials. 
 
The estimated fair value of the deferred revenue was determined based on the 
costs to perform the remaining services and/or satisfy the Company&#x2019;s 
remaining obligations, plus a reasonable profit for those activities. These 
remaining costs exclude sales and marketing expenses since the Deferred Revenue 
has already been &#x201c;sold,&#x201d; and no additional sales and marketing 
expenses will be incurred. The reasonable profit to be earned on the deferred 
revenue was estimated based on the profit mark-up that the Company earns on 
similar services. 
 
The estimated fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined 
utilizing a combination of the cost, sales comparison, market, and excess 
earnings method approaches, as follows: 
 
Under the cost approach a replacement cost of the asset is first determined 
based on replacing the real property with assets of equal utility and 
functionality, developed based on both the indirect and the direct cost 
methods. The indirect cost method includes multiplying the assets&#x2019; 
historical costs by industry specific inflationary trend factors to yield an 
estimated replacement cost. In applying this method, all direct and indirect 
costs including tax, freight, installation, engineering and other associated 
soft costs were considered. The direct cost method includes obtaining a current 
replacement cost estimate from the Company and equipment dealers, which 
includes all applicable direct and indirect costs. An appropriate depreciation 
allowance is then applied to the replacement cost based on the effective age of 
the assets relative to the expected normal useful lives of the assets, 
condition of the assets, and the planned future utilization of the assets. The 
determination of fair value also includes considerations of functional 
obsolescence and economic obsolescence, where applicable. 
 
The sales comparison approach was considered for certain real estate property. 
Under the sales comparison approach, an estimate of fair value is determined by 
comparing the property being valued to similar properties that have been sold 
within a reasonable period from the valuation date, applying appropriate units 
of comparison. 
 
The market approach was considered for certain assets with active secondary 
markets including agricultural equipment, automobiles, computer equipment, 
general equipment, mobile equipment, packaging machinery and semi-tractors. 
Under the market approach market, comparables for the assets are obtained from 
equipment dealers, resellers, industry databases, and published price guides. 
The market comparables are then adjusted to the subject assets based on age, 
condition or type of transaction. All applicable direct and indirect costs are 
also considered and reflected in the final fair value determination. 
 
The fair value of orchards in production was determined based on the excess 
earnings method under the income approach. This valuation approach assumed that 
the orchards&#x2019; production could be sold independently through a wholesale 
market rather than Harry & David&#x2019;s retail channel. The excess earnings 
method required calculating future crop revenue as determined by multiplying 
the future crop volume in tons to be produced by the projected price per ton 
based on the USDA &#x201c;Agricultural Prices&#x201d; report released January 
31, 2015 by the National Agricultural Statistics Services. Appropriate expenses 
were deducted from the sales attributable to the orchards and economic rents 
were charged for the return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows 
attributable to the asset were discounted back to their net present value at an 
appropriate rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the orchards. 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the 
relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow 
approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by 
estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from 
royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated 
by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through 
ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts 
back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based 
on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The 
discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company&#x2019;s weighted 
average cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with 
the trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using 
the excess earnings method under the income approach. This method requires 
identifying the future revenue that would be generated by existing customers at 
the time of the acquisition, considering an appropriate attrition rate based on 
the historical experience of the Company. Appropriate expenses are then 
deducted from the revenues and economic rents are charged for the return on 
contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset are 
discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate intangible asset 
rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the customer lists. 
 
Operating results of Harry & David are reflected in the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, within its 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. Harry & David contributed net revenues of 
$359.7 million and operating income of approximately $24.6 million from 
September 30, 2014 through June 28, 2015. These amounts are not necessarily 
indicative of the results of operations that Harry & David would have realized 
had it continued to operate as a stand-alone company during the period 
presented due to integration activities since the acquisition date, and due to 
costs that are now reflected in the Company&#x2019;s unallocated corporate 
costs which are not allocated to Harry & David. 
 
As required by ASC 805, &#x201c;Business Combinations,&#x201d; the following 
unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended June 28, 2015 and 
June 29, 2014, give effect to the Harry & David acquisition as if it had been 
completed on July 1, 2013. The unaudited pro forma financial information is 
prepared by management for informational purposes only in accordance with ASC 
805 and is not necessarily indicative of or intended to represent the results 
that would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of the 
dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of future 
consolidated results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial 
information does not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings 
that the Company may achieve with respect to the combined companies. The pro 
forma information has been adjusted to give effect to nonrecurring items that 
are directly attributable to the acquisition. 
 
 
 
                                                                   Year Ended 
                                                                   June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
Net revenues from continuing operations                              $ 1,152,103   $ 1,142,946 
Income from continuing operations attributable to                       $ 17,812      $ 19,439 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Diluted net income per common share attributable to                       $ 0.26        $ 0.29 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
  

 
The unaudited pro forma amounts above include the following adjustments: 
 
 
 
(1) An increase of net revenues and a decrease of cost of sales by $1.6 million 
    and $4.8 million, to reflect the impact of purchase accounting adjustments 
    related to Harry & David&#x2019;s deferred revenue and inventory fair value 
    step-up in the year ended June 28, 2015. 
  

 
 
 
(2) A decrease of operating expenses by $17.4 million during the year ended 
    June 28, 2015, to eliminate non-recurring acquisition costs ($11.9 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015), integration costs ($3.0 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015) and severance costs ($2.5 million 
    during the year ended June 28, 2015) directly related to the transaction. 
  

 
 
 
(3) A decrease of operating expenses by $0.4 million during the year ended June 
    29, 2014, to eliminate non-recurring acquisition costs directly related to 
    the transaction. 
  

 
 
 
(4) An increase of operating expenses by $0.2 million during the year ended 
    June 29, 2014, to reflect the additional amortization expense related to 
    the increase in definite lived intangibles. 
  

 
 
 
(5) An increase to interest expense by $1.1 million for the year ended June 28, 
    2015, and $4.8 million for the year ended June 29, 2014, respectively, to 
    reflect the incremental impact of the 2014 Credit Facility utilized to 
    finance the acquisition, assuming our new credit facility was in place on 
    July 1, 2013. 
  

 
 
 
(6) The adjustments above were tax effected at the combined entity&#x2019;s assumed 
    effective tax rate for the respective periods. 
  

 
Acquisition of Fannie May retail stores 
 
On June 27, 2014, the Company and GB Chocolates LLC (GB Chocolates) entered 
into a settlement agreement, resulting in the termination of the GB Chocolates 
franchise agreement, and its exclusive area development rights. As a result, in 
fiscal 2014, the Company recognized the previously deferred non-refundable area 
development fees of $0.7 million. In addition, per the terms of the 
non-performance Promissory Note, GB Chocolates paid $1.2 million as a result of 
its failure to complete its development obligations under the 2011 Area 
Development Agreement (the 2011 ADA). As a result, during the fourth quarter of 
fiscal 2014, the Company recognized revenue of $1.0 million ($0.2 million had 
been previously recognized). The Company has no plans to market the territories 
covered in the 2011 ADA. 
 
In conjunction with the settlement agreement, the Company and GB Chocolates 
entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby the Company repurchased 16 of 
the original 17 Fannie May retail stores sold to GB Chocolates in November 
2011. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting 
in accordance with FASB guidance regarding business combinations. The purchase 
price of $6.4 million was financed utilizing available cash balances. 
 
During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company finalized the allocation of 
the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
based on our estimates of their fair values on the acquisition date. There have 
been no measurement period adjustments. The following table summarizes the 
final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition: 
 
 
 
                              Final 
                              Purchase Price Allocation 
                              (in thousands) 
Current Assets                                    $ 103 
Property, plant and equipment                       487 
Goodwill                                          5,783 
Net assets acquired                             $ 6,373 
  

 
Operating results of the acquired stores are reflected in the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, within the 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. Pro forma results of operations have not 
been presented, as the impact on the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial 
results would not have been material. 
 
Acquisition of Colonial Gifts Limited 
 
On December 3, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition of a controlling 
interest in Colonial Gifts Limited (iFlorist). iFlorist, located in the UK, is 
a direct-to-consumer marketer of floral and gift-related products sold and 
delivered throughout Europe. The acquisition was achieved in stages and was 
accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board&#x2019;s (&#x201c;FASB&#x201d;) guidance 
regarding business combinations. 
 
Prior to December 3, 2013, the Company maintained an investment in iFlorist in 
the amount of $1.6 million, which was included on the Company&#x2019;s balance 
sheet within Other assets. This investment was accounted for under the cost 
method, as the Company&#x2019;s ownership stake was 19.9%, and it did not have 
the ability to exercise significant influence. 
 
On December 3, 2013, the Company acquired an additional interest in iFlorist, 
bringing the Company&#x2019;s ownership interest to 56.2%. The acquisition of 
the additional interest was financed through the conversion of $2.0 million of 
notes owed by iFlorist to the Company, and a $1.6 million cash payment to 
iFlorist&#x2019;s founders. Concurrent with the additional investment, the 
Company remeasured its initial equity investment in iFlorist, and determined 
that the acquisition date fair value approximated the Company&#x2019;s carrying 
value of $1.6 million, and therefore no gain or loss was recognized. On the 
acquisition date, the Company also measured the fair value of the 
noncontrolling interest which amounted to $3.6 million. The acquisition-date 
fair values of the Company&#x2019;s previously held equity interest in iFlorist 
and the noncontrolling interest were determined based on the market price the 
Company paid for its ownership interest in iFlorist on the acquisition date, 
assuming that a 20% control premium was paid to obtain the controlling 
interest. The following summarizes the fair values of the acquisition date 
purchase price components: 
 
 
 
                          iFlorist Fair Value of Purchase Price Components 
                          (in thousands) 
Cash                                                               $ 1,640 
Converted debt                                                       1,964 
Initial equity investment                                            1,629 
Noncontrolling interest                                              3,616 
Total purchase price                                               $ 8,849 
  

 
During the quarter ended December 28, 2014, the Company finalized the 
allocation of the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed based on our estimates of their fair values on the 
acquisition date. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets 
and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of 
depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant 
judgment. The estimates and assumptions include the projected timing and amount 
of future cash flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the future 
cash flows. Of the acquired intangible assets, $0.7 million was assigned to 
customer lists, which is being amortized over the estimated remaining life of 3 
years, $0.7 million was assigned to trademarks, and $7.9 million was assigned 
to goodwill, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. As a 
result of cumulative tax losses in the foreign jurisdiction, offset in part by 
the deferred tax liability arising from the amortizable customer lists which 
was considered a source of future income, the Company concluded that a full 
valuation allowance be recorded in such jurisdiction. 
 
The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to 
the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the 
date of the acquisition, as well as adjustments made during the measurement 
period: 
 
 
 
                        iFlorist         Measurement Period  iFlorist Final 
                        Preliminary      Adjustments 
 
                        Purchase Price   (1)                 Purchase Price Allocation 
                        Allocation 
                        (in thousands)   (in thousands)      (in thousands) 
Current assets                     $ 856                   -                     $ 856 
Intangible assets                  3,177             (1,709)                     1,468 
Goodwill                           6,537               1,320                     7,857 
Property, plant and                2,006                   -                     2,006 
equipment 
Other assets                          30                   -                        30 
Total assets acquired             12,606               (389)                    12,217 
Current liabilities,               3,014                   -                     3,014 
including current 
maturities of long-term 
debt 
Deferred tax                         648               (389)                       259 
liabilities 
Other liabilities                     95                   -                        95 
assumed 
Total liabilities                  3,757               (389)                     3,368 
assumed 
Net assets acquired              $ 8,849                   -                   $ 8,849 
  

 
 
 
(2) The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of 
    valuations related to intangible assets and resulted in the following: a 
    decrease to intangible assets and the related long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and an increase to goodwill. The measurement period adjustments 
    did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated statements 
    of income for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2015. In addition, 
    these adjustments did not have a significant impact on our condensed 
    consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2014. Therefore, we have not 
    retrospectively adjusted this financial information. 
  

 
The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the 
relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow 
approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by 
estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from 
royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated 
by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through 
ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts 
back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based 
on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The 
discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company&#x2019;s weighted 
average cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with 
the trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. 
 
The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using 
the with and without method. This method calculates the debt-free cash flows 
generated under two scenarios: the with and without. Under the with scenario, 
it is assumed that the Company achieves full projections and includes both 
existing customers as of the valuation date as well as new customers acquired 
during the course of normal business. The without scenario, assumes that the 
Company has no existing customers, but rather builds to management projections 
as new customers are acquired. The differential between the cash flows under 
the two scenarios is then discounted to present value to determine the value of 
the customer lists as of the valuation date. 
 
Operating results of the Company&#x2019;s membership interest in iFlorist are 
reflected in the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial statements from the 
date of acquisition, essentially all of which is included within the 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment. iFlorist&#x2019;s operations are not 
material to the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial statements and as such 
pro forma results of operations have not been presented. 
 
Acquisition of 1-800-Flowers&#x2019; European trademarks 
 
On March 11, 2013, the Company acquired the European rights to various 
derivations of the 1-800-Flowers&#x2019; tradename, trademark, URL&#x2019;s and 
telephone numbers from Flowerscorp Pty Ltd. for a purchase price of $4.0 
million, which is included within Other intangibles, net. 
 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
       Note 5 - Inventory                        12 Months Ended 
                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Inventory Disclosure {Abstract} 
Inventory Disclosure {Text Block} Note 5. Inventory 
 
                                  The Company&#x2019;s inventory, stated at 
                                  cost, which is not in excess of market, 
                                  includes purchased and manufactured finished 
                                  goods for sale, packaging supplies, raw 
                                  material ingredients for manufactured 
                                  products and associated manufacturing labor, 
                                  growing crops and is classified as follows: 
  

 
 
 
                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                (in thousands) 
Finished goods       $ 43,254      $ 30,859 
Work-in-process        16,020         8,566 
Raw materials          33,889        19,095 
                     $ 93,163      $ 58,520 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
   Note 6 - Goodwill and                      12 Months Ended 
     Intangible Assets 
                                               Jun. 28, 2015 
Goodwill and Intangible 
Assets Disclosure {Abstract} 
Goodwill and Intangible      Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
Assets Disclosure {Text 
Block} 
 
                             The following table presents goodwill by segment 
                             and the related change in the net carrying 
                             amount: 
  

 
 
 
                         Consumer Floral BloomNet Wire    Gourmet Food and Gift  Total 
                                         Service          Baskets (1) 
                                         (in thousands) 
Balance at June 30, 2013        $ 10,251                                $ 37,692 $ 47,943 
Acquisition of Fannie                                                      5,783    5,783 
May franchise stores 
Adjustments                         (97)                                       -     (97) 
Acquisition of iFlorist            6,537                                       -    6,537 
Balance at June 29, 2014        $ 16,691                                $ 43,475 $ 60,166 
Harry & David                                                             16,042   16,042 
acquisition 
iFlorist measurement               1,320                                            1,320 
period adjustment 
iFlorist translation               (429)                                            (429) 
adjustment 
Other                                                                        (2)      (2) 
Balance at June 28, 2015        $ 17,582                                $ 59,515 $ 77,097 
  

 
 
 
(1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is 
    reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which 
    were recorded in the GFGB segment during fiscal 2009. 
  

 
There were no goodwill impairment charges in any segment during the years ended 
June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013. 
 
The Company&#x2019;s other intangible assets consist of the following: 
 
 
 
                         June 28, 2015                   June 29, 2014 
             Amortizatio Gross     Accumulated  Net      Gross    Accumulated  Net 
             n           Carrying  Amortization          Carrying Amortization 
                         Amount                          Amount 
 
             Period 
 
             (in years) 
                                   (in thousands) 
Intangible 
assets with 
determinable 
lives 
Investment         14 16   $ 7,420      $ 5,727  $ 1,693  $ 7,420      $ 5,621  $ 1,799 
in licenses 
Customer            3 10    21,815       14,595    7,220   17,313       12,818    4,495 
lists 
Other               5  8     3,665        2,597    1,068    2,538        2,538        - 
                            32,900       22,919    9,981   27,271       20,977    6,294 
Trademarks                  72,144            -   72,144   38,322            -   38,322 
with 
indefinite 
lives 
Total                    $ 105,044     $ 22,919 $ 82,125 $ 65,593     $ 20,977 $ 44,616 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
  

 
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may 
not be recoverable. No material impairments were recognized for the years ended 
June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013. 
 
The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 
29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 was $.2.1 million, $1.6 million and $1.8 million, 
respectively. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: 2016 - $2.1 
million, 2017 - $1.5 million, 2018 &#x2013; $1.3 million, 2019 - $0.7 million, 
2020 - $0.6 million and thereafter - $3.8 million. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
       Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment                    12 Months Ended 
                                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Abstract} 
Property, Plant and Equipment Disclosure {Text Block} Note 7. Property, Plant and Equipment 
  

 
 
 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                                (in thousands) 
Land                                                 $ 31,077       $ 2,907 
Orchards in production and land improvements            9,028             - 
Building and building improvements                     55,121        12,551 
Leasehold improvements                                 19,459        18,504 
Production equipment and furniture and fixtures        63,132        40,582 
Computer and telecommunication equipment               56,582        57,488 
Software                                              150,695       136,226 
Capital projects in progress - orchards                 7,335             - 
                                                      392,429       268,258 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization             222,329       208,111 
                                                    $ 170,100      $ 60,147 
  

 
Depreciation expense for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 
30, 2013 was $27.0 million, $18.2 million, and $17.0 million, respectively. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
               Note 8 - Accrued Expenses                            12 Months Ended 
                                                                     Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block Supplement {Abstract} 
Accounts Payable, Accrued Liabilities, and Other         Note 8. Accrued Expenses 
Liabilities Disclosure, Current {Text Block} 
 
                                                         Accrued expenses consisted of the 
                                                         following: 
  

 
 
 
                              June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                              (in thousands) 
Payroll and employee benefits      $ 36,370      $ 22,601 
Advertising and marketing            11,923        11,803 
Other                                25,346        15,113 
                                   $ 73,639      $ 49,517 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_AccountsPayableAccruedLiabilitiesAndOtherLiabilitiesDisclosureCurrentTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockSupplementAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
    Note 9 - Long-Term Debt                          12 Months Ended 
                                                      Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block {Abstract} 
Long-term Debt {Text Block}      Note 9. Long-Term Debt 
 
                                 The Company&#x2019;s current and long-term debt 
                                 consists of the following: 
  

 
 
 
                                           June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                           (in thousands) 
Revolver (1)                                           -             - 
Term Loan (1)                                    131,813             - 
Bank loan (2)                                        293           343 
Total debt                                       132,106           343 
Less: current maturities of long-term debt        14,543           343 
Long-term debt                                 $ 117,563             - 
  

 
 
 
(1) In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, 
    the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
    administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the &#x201c;2014 Credit 
    Facility&#x201d;), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the 
    &#x201c;Term Loan&#x201d;) with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and 
    a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the &#x201c;Revolver&#x201d;), 
    with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, 
    which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and 
    general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly 
    installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with 
    escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% 
    in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance 
    of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the 
    Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts 
    outstanding under the Company&#x2019;s and Harry & David&#x2019;s previous 
    credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 
    There are no amounts outstanding under the Revolver as of June 28, 2015. 
  

 
The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the 
Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including 
the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with 
these covenants as of June 28, 2015. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit 
Facility bear interest at the Company&#x2019;s option at either: (i) LIBOR, 
plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company&#x2019;s 
leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 
Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company 
and the Subsidiary Guarantors. 
 
Future payments under the term loan are as follows: $14.2 million &#x2013; 
2016, $19.6 million &#x2013; 2017, $21.4 million &#x2013; 2018, $26.7 million 
&#x2013; 2019 and $49.9 million &#x2013; 2020. 
 
 
 
(2) Bank loan assumed through the Company&#x2019;s acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements                12 Months Ended 
                                                   Jun. 28, 2015 
Fair Value Disclosures {Abstract} 
Fair Value Disclosures {Text Block} Note 10. Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                    Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, 
                                    accounts payable and accrued expenses are 
                                    reflected in the consolidated balance 
                                    sheets at carrying value, which 
                                    approximates fair value due to the 
                                    short-term nature of these instruments. 
                                    Although no trading market exists, the 
                                    Company believes that the carrying amount 
                                    of its debt approximates fair value due to 
                                    its variable nature. The Company&#x2019;s 
                                    investments in non-marketable equity 
                                    instruments of private companies are 
                                    carried at cost and are periodically 
                                    assessed for other-than-temporary 
                                    impairment, when an event or circumstances 
                                    indicate that an other-than-temporary 
                                    decline in value may have occurred. The 
                                    Company&#x2019;s remaining financial assets 
                                    and liabilities are measured and recorded 
                                    at fair value (see table below). The 
                                    Company&#x2019;s non-financial assets, such 
                                    as definite lived intangible assets and 
                                    property, plant and equipment, are recorded 
                                    at cost and are assessed for impairment 
                                    when an event or circumstance indicates 
                                    that an other-than-temporary decline in 
                                    value may have occurred. Goodwill and 
                                    indefinite lived intangibles are tested for 
                                    impairment annually, or more frequently if 
                                    events occur or circumstances change such 
                                    that it is more likely than not that an 
                                    impairment may exist, as required under the 
                                    accounting standards. 
 
                                    Fair value is defined as the price that 
                                    would be received to sell an asset or paid 
                                    to transfer a liability, in the principal 
                                    or most advantageous market for the asset 
                                    or liability, in an orderly transaction 
                                    between market participants at the 
                                    measurement date. The authoritative 
                                    guidance for fair value measurements 
                                    establishes a fair value hierarchy that 
                                    prioritizes the inputs to valuation 
                                    techniques used to measure fair value. The 
                                    hierarchy gives the highest priority to 
                                    unadjusted quoted prices in active markets 
                                    for identical assets or liabilities (level 
                                    1 measurements) and the lowest priority to 
                                    unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). 
                                    The three levels of the fair value 
                                    hierarchy under the guidance are described 
                                    below: 
  

 
 
 
Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical 
        assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. 
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, 
        quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are 
        observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially 
        the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market 
        activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or 
        liabilities. 
  

 
The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: 
 
 
 
                                       Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                      Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                      Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                      (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 28, 
2015: 
Trading securities held in a                  $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
&#x201c;rabbi trust&#x201d; (1) 
                                              $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
  

 
 
 
                                       Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                      Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                      Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                      (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 29, 
2014: 
Trading securities held in a                  $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
&#x201c;rabbi trust&#x201d; (1) 
                                              $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
  

 
 
 
(1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 
    (Note 14 &#x2013; Employee Retirement Plans) for certain members of senior 
    management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds 
    held in a &#x201c;rabbi trust&#x201d; which is restricted for payment to 
    participants of the NQDC Plan Trading securities held in the rabbi trust 
    are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are 
    included in Other assets, with the corresponding liability included in 
    Other liabilities, in the consolidated balance sheets. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
      Note 11 - Income Taxes                     12 Months Ended 
                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Income Tax Disclosure {Abstract} 
Income Tax Disclosure {Text Block} Note 11. Income Taxes 
 
                                   The Company files income tax returns in the 
                                   U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state 
                                   and foreign jurisdictions. The Company 
                                   concluded its federal examination by the 
                                   Internal Revenue Service for fiscal year 
                                   2011, however, fiscal years 2012 through 
                                   2014 remain subject to federal examination. 
                                   Due to ongoing state examinations and 
                                   non-conformity with the federal statute of 
                                   limitations for assessment, certain states 
                                   also remain open from fiscal 2011. The 
                                   Company commenced operations in foreign 
                                   jurisdictions in 2012. The Company&#x2019;s 
                                   foreign income tax filings are open for 
                                   examination by its respective foreign tax 
                                   authorities in Canada and the United 
                                   Kingdom 
 
                                   The Company&#x2019;s policy is to recognize 
                                   interest and penalties accrued on any 
                                   unrecognized tax benefits as a component of 
                                   income tax expense. At June 28, 2015, the 
                                   Company has an unrecognized tax position of 
                                   approximately $0.6 million, including 
                                   accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 
                                   million. The Company believes that no 
                                   additional significant unrecognized tax 
                                   positions will be resolved over the next 
                                   twelve months. 
 
                                   Significant components of the income tax 
                                   provision from continuing operations are as 
                                   follows: 
  

 
 
 
                              Years ended 
                              June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                              2015     2014     2013 
                              (in thousands) 
Current provision (benefit): 
Federal                        $ 6,630  $ 6,439  $ 7,983 
State                            1,840    1,247    1,845 
Foreign                           (11)       11        - 
                                 8,459    7,697    9,828 
Deferred provision (benefit): 
Federal                          1,970      773    (730) 
State                              631       28     (25) 
Foreign                          (130)     (95)        - 
                                 2,471      706    (755) 
Income tax expense            $ 10,930  $ 8,403  $ 9,073 
  

 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company&#x2019;s 
effective tax rate is as follows: 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Tax at U.S. statutory rates                        35.0 %     35.0 %     35.0 % 
State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit      3.8        3.7        3.3 
Valuation allowance change                          2.6        1.5          - 
Rate differences                                    1.1        1.2      (0.3) 
Tax settlements                                     1.4      (1.0)        1.1 
Deductible stock-based compensation               (1.3)      (0.2)      (0.1) 
Domestic production deduction                     (2.2)      (1.9)      (1.8) 
Tax credits                                       (3.9)      (1.7)      (1.2) 
Other, net                                        (0.4)        1.0        0.6 
                                                   36.1 %     37.6 %     36.6 % 
  

 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The significant 
components of the Company's deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as 
follows: 
 
 
 
                                             Years ended 
                                             June 28,   June 29, 
 
                                             2015       2014 
                                             (in thousands) 
Deferred income tax assets: 
Net operating loss and credit carryforwards     $ 6,743  $ 4,342 
Accrued expenses and reserves                     5,921    6,178 
Stock-based compensation                          3,622    3,420 
Book in excess of tax depreciation                    -    1,322 
Gross deferred income tax assets                 16,286   15,262 
Less: Valuation allowance                       (4,589)  (2,241) 
                                                 11,697   13,021 
Deferred income tax liabilities: 
Other intangibles                              (23,307)  (6,512) 
Tax in excess of book depreciation             (26,197)        - 
                                               (49,504)  (6,512) 
Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ (37,807)  $ 6,509 
  

 
A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some 
portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company 
has established valuation allowances primarily for net operating loss 
carryforwards in certain states and its United Kingdom and Canada subsidiaries. 
At June 28, 2015 the Company&#x2019;s federal net operating loss carryforwards 
were $2.5 million, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in fiscal year 
2025. The federal net operating loss is subject to Section 382 limitations of 
$0.3 million per year. The Company&#x2019;s foreign net operating loss 
carryforward was $7.5 million, while the state net operating losses were $6.2 
million, before federal benefit, which if not utilized, will begin to expire in 
fiscal year 2016. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
       Note 12 - Capital Stock                     12 Months Ended 
                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Capital Stock Disclosure {Abstract} 
Capital Stock Disclosure {Text Block} Note 12. Capital Stock 
 
                                      Holders of Class A common stock generally 
                                      have the same rights as the holders of 
                                      Class B common stock, except that holders 
                                      of Class A common stock have one vote per 
                                      share and holders of Class B common stock 
                                      have 10 votes per share on all matters 
                                      submitted to the vote of stockholders. 
                                      Holders of Class A common stock and Class 
                                      B common stock generally vote together as 
                                      a single class on all matters presented 
                                      to the stockholders for their vote or 
                                      approval, except as may be required by 
                                      Delaware law. Class B common stock may be 
                                      converted into Class A common stock at 
                                      any time on a one-for-one share basis. 
                                      Each share of Class B common stock will 
                                      automatically convert into one share of 
                                      Class A common stock upon its transfer, 
                                      with limited exceptions. During fiscal 
                                      2015, 2,748,550 shares of Class B common 
                                      stock were converted into shares of Class 
                                      A common stock. 
 
                                      The Company has a stock repurchase plan 
                                      through which purchases can be made from 
                                      time to time in the open market and 
                                      through privately negotiated 
                                      transactions, subject to general market 
                                      conditions. The repurchase program is 
                                      financed utilizing available cash. In 
                                      June 2015, the Company&#x2019;s Board of 
                                      Directors authorized an increase of $25 
                                      million to its stock repurchase plan. The 
                                      Company repurchased a total of $8.4 
                                      million (1,056,038 shares), $8.3 million 
                                      (1,561,206 shares) and $9.6 million 
                                      (2,490,065 shares) during the fiscal 
                                      years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 
                                      and June 30, 2013, respectively, under 
                                      this program. As of June 28, 2015, $27.3 
                                      million remains authorized under the 
                                      plan. 
 
                                      The Company has stock options and 
                                      restricted stock awards outstanding to 
                                      participants under the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM 
                                      2003 Long Term Incentive and Share Award 
                                      Plan (the &#x201c;Plan&#x201d;). The Plan 
                                      is a broad-based, long-term incentive 
                                      program that is intended to attract, 
                                      retain and motivate employees, 
                                      consultants and directors to achieve the 
                                      Company&#x2019;s long-term growth and 
                                      profitability objectives, and therefore 
                                      align stockholder and employee interests. 
                                      The Plan provides for the grant to 
                                      eligible employees, consultants and 
                                      directors of stock options, share 
                                      appreciation rights 
                                      (&#x201c;SARs&#x201d;), restricted 
                                      shares, restricted share units, 
                                      performance shares, performance units, 
                                      dividend equivalents, and other 
                                      share-based awards (collectively 
                                      &#x201c;Awards&#x201d;). 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_CapitalStockDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The entire disclosure for capital stock which includes: (1) different types of 
capital stock, (2) stock repurchase plan (3) share-based compensation plan. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_CapitalStockDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation               12 Months Ended 
                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure of Compensation Related 
Costs, Share-based Payments {Abstract} 
Disclosure of Compensation Related     Note 13. Stock Based Compensation 
Costs, Share-based Payments {Text 
Block} 
 
                                       The Plan is administered by the 
                                       Compensation Committee or such other 
                                       Board committee (or the entire Board) as 
                                       may be designated by the Board (the 
                                       &#x201c;Committee&#x201d;). At June 28, 
                                       2015, the Company has reserved 
                                       approximately 12.5 million shares of 
                                       common stock for issuance, including 
                                       options previously authorized for 
                                       issuance under the 1999 Stock Incentive 
                                       Plan. 
 
                                       The amounts of stock-based compensation 
                                       expense recognized in the periods 
                                       presented are as follows: 
  

 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28,      June 29, June 30, 
 
                                      2015          2014     2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share 
                                      data) 
Stock options                                 $ 459    $ 420    $ 477 
Restricted stock awards                       5,503    4,244    3,806 
Total                                         5,962    4,664    4,283 
Deferred income tax benefit                   2,087    1,738    1,555 
Stock-based compensation expense, net       $ 3,875  $ 2,926  $ 2,728 
  

 
Stock based compensation expense is recorded within the following line items of 
operating expenses: 
 
 
 
                           Years Ended 
                           June 28, July 29, June 30, 
 
                           2015     2014     2013 
                           (in thousands) 
Marketing and sales         $ 1,866  $ 1,261  $ 1,499 
Technology and development      392      298      428 
General and administrative    3,704    3,105    2,356 
Total                       $ 5,962  $ 4,664  $ 4,283 
  

 
Stock-based compensation expense has not been allocated between business 
segments, but is reflected as part of Corporate overhead. (Refer to Note 15. 
Business Segments). 
 
Stock Options 
 
The weighted average fair value of stock options on the date of grant, and the 
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the stock options using the 
Black-Scholes option valuation model, were as follows: 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Weighted average fair value of options granted   $ 4.86     $ 3.16     $ 2.95 
Expected volatility                                  52 %       61 %       72 % 
Expected life (in years)                            7.3        6.6        6.4 
Risk-free interest rate                             1.9 %      1.6 %      0.7 % 
Expected dividend yield                             0.0 %      0.0 %      0.0 % 
  

 
The expected volatility of the option is determined using historical 
volatilities based on historical stock prices. The Company estimated the 
expected life of options granted based upon the historical weighted average. 
The risk-free interest rate is determined using the yield available for 
zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the expected 
life of the option. The Company has never paid a dividend, and as such the 
dividend yield is 0.0%. 
 
The following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended June 
28, 2015: 
 
 
 
                                  Options   Weighted Weighted                Aggregate 
 
                                            Average  Average                 Intrinsic 
 
                                            Exercise Remaining Contractual   Value (000s) 
                                                     Term 
 
                                            Price    (in years) 
Outstanding beginning of period   4,339,790   $ 3.80 
Granted                              75,000   $ 8.83 
Exercised                         (853,170)   $ 6.44 
Forfeited/Expired                 (216,474)   $ 8.44 
Outstanding end of period         3,345,146   $ 2.93                     4.3     $ 24,910 
Options vested or expected to     3,241,485   $ 2.93                     4.2     $ 24,141 
vest at end of period 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015      2,095,246   $ 3.04                     3.1     $ 15,371 
  

 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax 
intrinsic value (the difference between the Company&#x2019;s closing stock 
price on the last trading day of fiscal 2015 and the exercise price, multiplied 
by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the 
option holders had all option holders exercised their options on June 28, 2015. 
This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company&#x2019;s 
stock. The total intrinsic value of options exercised for the years ended June 
28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013 was $3.6 million, $0.4 million, and 
$0.6 million, respectively. 
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at 
June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
                     Options Outstanding                          Options Exercisable 
Exercise Price       Options     Weighted-              Weighted- Options     Weighted- 
 
                     Outstanding Average                Average   Exercisable Average 
 
                                 Remaining              Exercise              Exercise 
 
                                 Contractual Life       Price                 Price 
                                 (years) 
$1.69 &#x2013; 1.79    1,003,500                    5.3    $ 1.79     501,000    $ 1.79 
$2.22 &#x2013; 2.88    1,053,000                    6.3    $ 2.62     422,600    $ 2.61 
$3.11 &#x2013; 3.11      959,755                    0.9    $ 3.11     959,755    $ 3.11 
$3.26 &#x2013; 9.25      276,391                    4.2    $ 6.32     184,391    $ 6.09 
$9.74 &#x2013; 10.20      52,500                    5.9    $ 9.99      27,500    $ 9.80 
                       3,345,146                    4.3    $ 2.93   2,095,246    $ 3.04 
  

 
As of June 28, 2015, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested 
options not yet recognized in the statement of operations was $1.8 million and 
the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be 
recognized was 3.9 years. 
 
Restricted Stock 
 
The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to 
restrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable 
service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). 
 
The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock 
during the year ended June 28, 2015: 
 
 
 
                                       Shares      Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value 
Non-vested &#x2013; beginning of         2,686,685                                 $ 3.90 
period 
Granted                                    976,882                                 $ 8.09 
Vested                                 (1,154,173)                                 $ 3.48 
Forfeited                                (167,342)                                 $ 7.14 
Non-vested - end of period               2,342,052                                 $ 5.62 
  

 
The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock 
price on the grant date. As of June 28, 2015, there was $8.1 million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based 
compensation to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisclosureOfCompensationRelatedCostsSharebasedPaymentsAbstract 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisclosureOfCompensationRelatedCostsShareBasedPaymentsTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 14 - Employee Retirement                  12 Months Ended 
             Plans 
                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 
Compensation and Retirement 
Disclosure {Abstract} 
Pension and Other Postretirement Note 14. Employee Retirement Plans 
Benefits Disclosure {Text 
Block} 
 
                                 The Company has a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan 
                                 covering substantially all of its eligible 
                                 employees. All employees who have attained the 
                                 age of 21 are eligible to participate upon 
                                 completion of one month of service. 
                                 Participants may elect to make voluntary 
                                 contributions to the 401(k) plan in amounts 
                                 not exceeding federal guidelines. On an annual 
                                 basis the Company, as determined by its board 
                                 of directors, may make certain discretionary 
                                 contributions. Employees are vested in the 
                                 Company's contributions based upon years of 
                                 service. The Company suspended all 
                                 contributions during fiscal years 2015, 2014 
                                 and 2013. 
 
                                 The Company also has a nonqualified 
                                 supplemental deferred compensation plan for 
                                 certain executives pursuant to Section 409A of 
                                 the Internal Revenue Code. Participants can 
                                 defer from 1% up to a maximum of 100% of 
                                 salary and performance and non-performance 
                                 based bonus. The Company will match 50% of the 
                                 deferrals made by each participant during the 
                                 applicable period, up to a maximum of $2,500. 
                                 Employees are vested in the Company's 
                                 contributions based upon years of 
                                 participation in the plan. Distributions will 
                                 be made to participants upon termination of 
                                 employment or death in a lump sum, unless 
                                 installments are selected. As of June 28, 2015 
                                 and June 29, 2014, these plan liabilities, 
                                 which are included in Other liabilities within 
                                 the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance 
                                 Sheet, totaled $3.1 million and $2.1 million, 
                                 respectively. The associated plan assets, 
                                 which are subject to the claims of the 
                                 creditors, are primarily invested in mutual 
                                 funds and are included in Other assets-long 
                                 term. Company contributions during the years 
                                 ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 
                                 30, 2013 were less than $0.1 million. Gains 
                                 and losses on these investments, were $0.2 
                                 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the 
                                 years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and 
                                 June 30, 2013, are included in Interest 
                                 expense and other, net, within the 
                                 Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Statements of 
                                 Income. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CompensationAndRetirementDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PensionAndOtherPostretirementBenefitsDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 15 - Business                       12 Months Ended 
      Segments 
                                           Jun. 28, 2015 
Segment Reporting 
{Abstract} 
Segment Reporting    Note 15. Business Segments 
Disclosure {Text 
Block} 
 
                     The Company&#x2019;s management reviews the results of the 
                     Company&#x2019;s operations by the following three 
                     business segments: 
  

 
 
 
&#x2022; 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, 
  

 
 
 
&#x2022; BloomNet Wire Service, and 
  

 
 
 
&#x2022; Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets 
  

 
Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes 
only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As 
such, management&#x2019;s measure of profitability for these segments does not 
include the effect of corporate overhead (see (2) below), nor does it include 
depreciation and amortization, other income/expense and income taxes, or 
stock-based compensation and certain Harry & David transaction/integration 
costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and 
liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not 
accounted for by segment. 
 
 
 
                                  Years ended 
Net revenues                      June 28,    June 29,  June 30, 
 
                                  2015        2014      2013 
                                  (in thousands) 
Net revenues: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral   $ 422,199 $ 421,336 $ 411,526 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)              85,968    84,199    81,822 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)       613,953   251,990   243,225 
Corporate                               1,020       797       789 
Intercompany eliminations             (1,634)   (1,977)   (1,865) 
Total net revenues                $ 1,121,506 $ 756,345 $ 735,497 
  

 
 
 
                                            Years ended 
Operating Income from Continuing Operations June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                            2015     2014     2013 
                                            (in thousands) 
Segment Contribution Margin: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral           $ 43,529 $ 40,252 $ 47,193 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)                     29,398   26,715   25,611 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)               74,889   27,122   20,345 
Segment Contribution Margin Subtotal         147,816   94,089   93,149 
Corporate (2)                               (81,075) (50,535) (48,565) 
Depreciation and amortization               (29,124) (19,848) (18,798) 
Operating income                            $ 37,617 $ 23,706 $ 25,786 
  

 
 
 
(1) Refer to Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May warehouse and distribution 
    facility. On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple 
    Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. As a result of the fire, 
    the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and 
    Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as 
    for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during its fiscal second and third 
    quarter. As a result, the Company&#x2019;s revenues and income from 
    operations were negatively impacted. The Company does not believe that 
    there will be any further significant impact from this issue beyond the 
    year ended June 28, 2015. 
  

 
 
 
(2) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost 
    centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human 
    Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service 
    Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation, and during the year 
    ended June 28, 2015 acquisition and integration costs (including severance) 
    related to the acquisition of Harry & David, in the amount of $9.6 million. 
    In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are 
    operated under a centralized management platform, providing support 
    services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other 
    than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to 
    the above segments based upon usage, are included within corporate 
    expenses, as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. The 
    Company has commenced integrating Harry & David into its operating 
    platforms, and as such, their operating costs have been classified in a 
    similar manner. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SegmentReportingAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SegmentReportingDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 16 - Discontinued Operations                12 Months Ended 
                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Discontinued Operations and Disposal 
Groups {Abstract} 
Disposal Groups, Including             Note 16. Discontinued Operations 
Discontinued Operations, Disclosure 
{Text Block} 
 
                                       During the fourth quarter of fiscal 
                                       2013, the Company made the strategic 
                                       decision to divest the e-commerce and 
                                       procurement businesses of its 
                                       Winetasting Network subsidiary in order 
                                       to focus on growth opportunities in its 
                                       Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets business 
                                       segment. The Company closed on the sale 
                                       of its e-commerce and procurement 
                                       businesses on December 31, 2013. The 
                                       Company had originally estimated a loss 
                                       of $2.3 million ($1.5 million, net of 
                                       tax), which was provided for during the 
                                       fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, but the 
                                       loss was reduced to $1.0 million, upon 
                                       finalization of terms and closing on the 
                                       sale. As a result, the Company reversed 
                                       $1.3 million ($0.8 million, net of tax) 
                                       of its accrual for the estimated loss 
                                       during the fiscal year ended June 29, 
                                       2014. The Company has classified the 
                                       results of the e-commerce and 
                                       procurement business of The Winetasting 
                                       Network as a discontinued operation for 
                                       the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
 
                                       Results for discontinued operations are 
                                       as follows: 
  

 
 
 
                                                              Years Ended 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29,2014 June 30, 2013 
                                                (in thousands, except per share data) 
Net revenues from discontinued operations                          $ 1,669       $ 5,154 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                       $ (86)     $ (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations,                      $ 815     $ (1,512) 
net of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations                           $ 729     $ (3,401) 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationsAndDisposalGroupsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisposalGroupsIncludingDiscontinuedOperationsDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 17 - Commitments and                    12 Months Ended 
      Contingencies 
                                              Jun. 28, 2015 
Commitments and 
Contingencies Disclosure 
{Abstract} 
Commitments and            Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies 
Contingencies Disclosure 
{Text Block} 
 
                           Leases 
 
                           The Company currently leases office, store 
                           facilities, and equipment under various leases 
                           through fiscal 2030. As these leases expire, it can 
                           be expected that in the normal course of business 
                           they will be renewed or replaced. Most lease 
                           agreements contain renewal options and rent 
                           escalation clauses and require the Company to pay 
                           real estate taxes, insurance, common area 
                           maintenance and operating expenses applicable to the 
                           leased properties. The Company has also entered into 
                           leases that are on a month-to-month basis. These 
                           leases are classified as either capital leases, 
                           operating leases or subleases, as appropriate. 
 
                           As of June 28, 2015 future minimum rental payments 
                           under non-cancelable operating leases with initial 
                           terms of one year or more consist of the following: 
  

 
 
 
                             Operating Leases 
                             (in thousands) 
                        2016         $ 24,338 
                        2017           20,940 
                        2018           15,980 
                        2019           12,658 
                        2020            9,826 
Thereafter                             52,195 
Total minimum lease payments        $ 135,937 
  

 
At June 28, 2015, the total future minimum sublease rentals under 
non-cancelable operating sub-leases for land and buildings were $3.0 million. 
 
Rent expense was approximately $28.3 million, $17.7 million and $17.7 million 
for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively. 
 
Other Commitments 
 
The Company&#x2019;s purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory, 
equipment and technology purchase orders made in the ordinary course of 
business, most of which have terms less than one year. As of June 28, 2015, the 
Company had fixed and determinable off-balance sheet purchase commitments with 
remaining terms in excess of one year of approximately $4.9 million, primarily 
related to the Company&#x2019;s technology infrastructure. 
 
The Company had approximately $2.5 million in unused stand-by letters of credit 
as of June 28, 2015. 
 
Litigation 
 
From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims 
arising in the ordinary course of business: 
 
In re Trilegiant Corporation, Inc. (Frank v.Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., et 
al): 
 
On November 10, 2010, a purported class action complaint was filed in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York naming the 
Company (along with Trilegiant Corporation, Inc., Affinion, Inc. and Chase Bank 
USA, N.A.) as defendants in an action purporting to assert claims against the 
Company alleging violations arising under the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Practices Act ("CUTPA") among other statutes, and for breach of contract and 
unjust enrichment in connection with certain post-transaction marketing 
practices in which certain of the Company's subsidiaries previously engaged in 
with certain third-party vendors. On December 23, 2011, plaintiff filed a 
notice of voluntary dismissal seeking to dismiss the entire action without 
prejudice. The court entered an Order on November 28, 2012, dismissing the case 
in its entirety. This case was subsequently refiled in the United States 
District Court for the District of Connecticut. 
 
On March 6, 2012 and March 15, 2012, two additional purported class action 
complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of 
Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as defendants in 
actions purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted in 
the lawsuit filed on November 10, 2010. In each case, plaintiffs seek to have 
the respective case certified as a class action and seek restitution and other 
damages, each in an amount in excess of $5.0 million. On April 26, 2012, the 
two Connecticut cases were consolidated with a third case previously pending in 
the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in which the 
Company is not a party (the "Consolidated Action"). A consolidated amended 
complaint was filed by plaintiffs on September 7, 2012, purporting to assert 
claims substantially similar to those originally asserted. The Company moved to 
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on December 7, 2012, which was 
subsequently refiled at the direction of the Court on January 16, 2013. 
 
On December 5, 2012, the same plaintiff from the action voluntarily dismissed 
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York filed 
a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the 
District of Connecticut naming the Company and numerous other parties as 
defendants, purporting to assert claims substantially similar to those asserted 
in the consolidated amended complaint (the &#x201c;Frank Action&#x201d;). On 
January 23, 2013, plaintiffs in the Consolidated Action filed a motion to 
transfer and consolidate the action filed on December 5, 2012 with the 
Consolidated Action. The Company intends to defend each of these actions 
vigorously. 
 
On January 31, 2013, the court issued an order to show cause directing 
plaintiffs' counsel in the Frank Action, also counsel for plaintiffs in the 
Consolidated Action, to show cause why the Frank Action is distinguishable from 
the Consolidated Action such that it may be maintained despite the 
prior-pending action doctrine. On June 13, 2013, the court issued an order in 
the Frank Action suspending deadlines to answer or to otherwise respond to the 
complaint until 21 days after the court decides whether the Frank Action should 
be consolidated with the Consolidated Action. On July 24, 2013 the Frank Action 
was reassigned to Judge Vanessa Bryant, before whom the Consolidated Action is 
currently pending, for all further proceedings. On August 14, 2013, other 
defendants filed a motion for clarification in the Frank Action requesting that 
Judge Bryant clarify the order suspending deadlines. 
 
On March 28, 2014, the Court issued a series of rulings disposing of all the 
pending motions in both the Consolidated Action and the Frank Action. Among 
other things, the Court dismissed several causes of action, leaving pending a 
claim for CUTPA violations stemming from Trilegiant&#x2019;s refund mitigation 
strategy and a claim for unjust enrichment. Thereafter, the Court consolidated 
the Frank case into the Consolidated Action. On April 28, 2014 plaintiffs moved 
for leave to appeal the various rulings against them to the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit and to have a partial final judgment entered 
dismissing those claims that the Court had ordered dismissed. The Company filed 
its Answer to the Complaint on May 12, 2014. On March 26, 2015, the Court 
denied plaintiffs&#x2019; motions and the parties are now engaged in discovery. 
 
Edible Arrangements: 
 
On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court 
for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible 
Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company&#x2019;s use of the 
terms &#x201c;Fruit Bouquets,&#x201d; &#x201c;Edible,&#x201d; 
&#x201c;Bouquet,&#x201d; &#x201c;Edible Fruit Arrangements,&#x201d; Edible 
Arrangements,&#x201d; and &#x201c;DoFruit&#x201d; and its use of a six petal 
pineapple slice design in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit 
arrangements constitutes trademark infringement, false designation of origin, 
dilution, and contributory infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC 
(s) 1114 and 1125(a), common law unfair competition, and a violation of the 
Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes (s) 
42-110b (a). The Complaint alleges Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the 
amount of $97,411,000. The Complaint requests a declaratory judgment in favor 
of Edible Arrangements, an injunction against the Company&#x2019;s use of the 
terms and design, an accounting and payment of the Company&#x2019;s profits 
from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a trebling of the Company&#x2019;s 
profits from such sales or of any damages sustained by Edible Arrangements, 
punitive damages, and attorneys&#x2019; fees. On November 24, 2014, the 
Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of these terms 
and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of the 
Company&#x2019;s remote subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. 
 
On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the 
Company&#x2019;s subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $ 101,436,000. The 
Company filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer 
asserts substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and 
descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of 
Edible Arrangements&#x2019; trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and 
trademark misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, 
functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible 
Arrangements&#x2019; use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the 
antitrust laws. 
 
The Counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and 
invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements&#x2019; 
registrations due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary 
meaning as to any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be 
determined for violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act 
and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
 
Discovery has begun and Edible Arrangements filed a motion to dismiss the 
Company&#x2019;s Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. 
The Company filed its brief in opposition to the motion to dismiss on July 10, 
2015. The parties are awaiting a decision from the Court. By Order dated May 4, 
2015, the court ordered a phasing of the case and bifurcated the antitrust 
Counterclaim from the infringement claims. 
 
The Company believes its Counterclaims to the Edible Arrangements&#x2019; 
claims are meritorious and that there are substantial defenses to both of the 
claims above and expects to defend the claims vigorously. 
 
There are no assurances that additional legal actions will not be instituted in 
connection with the Company&#x2019;s former post-transaction marketing 
practices involving third party vendors nor can we predict the outcome of any 
such legal action. At this time, we are unable to estimate a possible loss or 
range of possible loss for the aforementioned actions for various reasons, 
including, among others: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate, (ii) the 
proceedings are in the very early stages and in the Frank v. Trilegiant 
Corporation, Inc. matter, the court has not yet ruled as to whether the classes 
will be certified, and (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending 
motions. As a result of the foregoing, we have determined that the amount of 
possible loss or range of loss is not reasonably estimable. However, legal 
matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, 
some of which may be beyond our control. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingenciesDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingenciesDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May                12 Months Ended 
    Warehouse and Distribution 
             Facility 
                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Nonrecurring Items {Abstract} 
Nonrecurring Items {Text Block}    Note 18. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse 
                                   and Distribution Facility 
 
                                   On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the 
                                   Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and 
                                   distribution facility. While the fire did 
                                   not cause any injuries, the building was 
                                   severely damaged, rendering it inoperable 
                                   for the key calendar 2014 holiday season, 
                                   and all Fannie May and Harry London 
                                   confections in the facility were destroyed. 
                                   As a result, the Company had limited 
                                   supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates 
                                   and Harry London Chocolates products 
                                   available in its retail stores as well as 
                                   for its ecommerce and wholesale channels 
                                   during the holiday season. While the Company 
                                   implemented contingency plans to increase 
                                   production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates 
                                   and Harry London Chocolates products at its 
                                   production facility in Canton, Ohio and to 
                                   shift warehousing and distribution 
                                   operations to alternate Company facilities, 
                                   product availability was severely limited, 
                                   impacting revenue and earnings during the 
                                   fiscal second and third quarters of fiscal 
                                   2015. The Company does not believe that 
                                   there will be any further significant impact 
                                   on revenues from this issue beyond the year 
                                   ended June 28, 2015. 
 
                                   While no insurance recoveries have been 
                                   recorded to date related to lost sales, the 
                                   Company expects that its property and 
                                   business interruption insurance will cover 
                                   these losses. 
 
                                   The following table reflects the incremental 
                                   costs related to the fire and related 
                                   insurance recovery for the year ended June 
                                   28, 2015: 
  

 
 
 
Loss on inventory             $ 29,522 
Other fire related costs         3,487 
                                33,009 
Less: Fire related recoveries  (33,009 ) 
Fire related charges, net     &#x2014; 
  

 
Through June 28, 2015, the Company has incurred fire related costs totaling 
$33.0 million, including a $29.5 million write-down of inventory. Based on the 
provisions of the Company's insurance policies and management's estimates, the 
losses incurred have been reduced by the estimated insurance recoveries. The 
Company has determined that recovery of the incurred losses, including amounts 
related to the retentions described above, is probable and recorded $33.0 
million of insurance recoveries through June 28, 2015. Through June 28, 2015, 
the Company received $30.0 million of insurance proceeds, representing an 
advance of funds. As a result, the insurance receivable balance was $3.0 
million as of June 28, 2015. 
 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NonrecurringItemsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The entire disclosure of unpredictable items that are unlikely to occur again in the future. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NonrecurringItemsTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
   Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                   12 Months Ended 
                                                                      Jun. 28, 2015 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts {Abstract} 
Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying 
Disclosure {Text Block}                                Accounts 
  

 
 
 
                                    Additions 
Description             Balance at  Charged to   Charged   Deductions-   Balance at 
                                                 to 
 
                        Beginning   Costs        Other     Describe (a)  End of 
                                                 Accounts- 
 
                        of Period   and Expenses Describe                Period 
Reserves and allowances 
deducted from asset 
accounts: 
Reserve for estimated 
doubtful 
accounts-accounts/notes 
receivable 
Year Ended June 28,     $ 2,443,000  $ 1,295,000           $ (1,503,000) $ 2,235,000 
2015 
Year Ended June 29,     $ 2,488,000  $ 1,656,000           $ (1,701,000) $ 2,443,000 
2014 
Year Ended June 30,     $ 2,408,000  $ 1,085,000           $ (1,005,000) $ 2,488,000 
2013 
  

 
(a)   Reduction in reserve due to write-off of accounts/notes receivable 
balances. 
 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfValuationAndQualifyingAccountsDisclosureTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAndQualifyingAccountsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Accounting Policies, by                     12 Months Ended 
     Policy (Policies) 
                                               Jun. 28, 2015 
Accounting Policies 
{Abstract} 
Consolidation, Policy        Basis of Presentation 
{Policy Text Block} 
 
                             The consolidated financial statements include the 
                             accounts of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its 
                             subsidiaries (collectively, the 
                             &#x201c;Company&#x201d;). All significant 
                             intercompany accounts and transactions have been 
                             eliminated in consolidation. During fiscal 2015 
                             and 2014, approximately 1% and 2%, respectively, 
                             of consolidated net revenue came from 
                             international sources, whereas in fiscal 2013 
                             virtually all of the Company&#x2019;s revenues had 
                             been derived from domestic sources. 
 
                             During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the 
                             Company made the strategic decision to divest the 
                             e-commerce and procurement businesses of its 
                             Winetasting Network subsidiary in order to focus 
                             on growth opportunities in its Gourmet Foods and 
                             Gift Baskets business segment. The Company closed 
                             on the sale of its Winetasting Network business on 
                             December 31, 2013. The Company has classified the 
                             results of the e-commerce and procurement business 
                             of The Winetasting Network as a discontinued 
                             operation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. 
Fiscal Period, Policy        Fiscal Year 
{Policy Text Block} 
 
                             The Company&#x2019;s fiscal year is a 52- or 
                             53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to 
                             June 30. Fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 
                             consisted of 52 weeks which ended on June 28, 
                             2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
                             respectively. 
Use of Estimates, Policy     Use of Estimates 
{Policy Text Block} 
 
                             The preparation of financial statements in 
                             conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting 
                             principles requires management to make estimates 
                             and assumptions that affect the amounts reported 
                             in the financial statements and accompanying 
                             notes. Actual results could differ from those 
                             estimates. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents,   Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
                             Cash and cash equivalents consist of demand 
                             deposits with banks, highly liquid money market 
                             funds, United States government securities, 
                             overnight repurchase agreements and commercial 
                             paper with maturities of three months or less when 
                             purchased. 
Inventory, Policy {Policy    Inventories 
Text Block} 
 
                             Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or 
                             market using the first-in, first-out method of 
                             accounting. 
Property, Plant and          Property, Plant and Equipment 
Equipment, Policy {Policy 
Text Block} 
 
                             Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost 
                             less accumulated depreciation and amortization. 
                             Depreciation expense is computed using the 
                             straight-line method over the assets&#x2019; 
                             estimated useful lives. Amortization of leasehold 
                             improvements and capital leases is computed using 
                             the straight-line method over the shorter of the 
                             estimated useful lives and the initial lease 
                             terms. The Company capitalizes certain internal 
                             and external costs incurred to acquire or develop 
                             internal-use software. Capitalized software costs 
                             are amortized on a straight-line basis over the 
                             estimated useful life of the software. Orchards in 
                             production, consisting of direct labor and 
                             materials, supervision and other items, are 
                             capitalized as part of capital projects in 
                             progress &#x2013; orchards until the orchards 
                             produce fruit in commercial quantities. Upon 
                             attaining commercial levels of production the 
                             capital investments in these orchards are recorded 
                             as land improvements. Estimated useful lives are 
                             periodically reviewed, and where appropriate, 
                             changes are made prospectively. The 
                             Company&#x2019;s property plant and equipment is 
                             depreciated using the following estimated lives: 
  

 
 
 
Building and building improvements (years)           10 40 
Leasehold improvements (years)                        3 10 
Furniture, fixtures and production equipment (years)  3 10 
Software (years)                                      3  7 
Orchards in production and land improvements         15 35 
  

 
Property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the 
carrying amounts are not recoverable. 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Goodwill, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Goodwill 
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the 
net assets acquired in each business combination, with the carrying value of 
the Company&#x2019;s goodwill allocated to its reporting units, in accordance 
with the acquisition method of accounting. Goodwill is not amortized, but it is 
subject to an annual assessment for impairment, which the Company performs 
during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances 
change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. 
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. The 
Company identifies its reporting units by assessing whether the components of 
its operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial 
information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly 
reviews the operating results of those components. Goodwill impairment testing 
involves a two-step process. The first step requires comparison of the fair 
value of each of the reporting units to the respective carrying value. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit is less than the fair value, no impairment 
exists and the second step is not performed. If the carrying value of the 
reporting unit is higher than the fair value, the second step must be performed 
to compute the amount of the goodwill impairment, if any. In the second step, 
the impairment is computed by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting 
unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount 
of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. 
 
The Company generally estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using an 
equal weighting of the income and market approaches. The Company uses industry 
accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by 
various levels of management and, in certain instances, the Company engages 
third-party valuation specialists. Under the income approach, the Company uses 
a discounted cash flow methodology which requires management to make 
significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross 
profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual 
growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market 
approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method. Under this 
method the Company utilizes information from comparable publicly traded 
companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the 
reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the 
operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, in order to obtain 
their respective fair values. The Company also reconciles the aggregate fair 
values of its reporting units determined in the first step (as described above) 
to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control premium. 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Intangible Assets, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Other Intangibles, net 
 
Other intangibles consist of definite-lived intangible assets (such as 
investment in licenses, customer lists, and others) and indefinite-lived 
intangible assets (such as acquired trade names and trademarks). The cost of 
definite-lived intangible assets is amortized to reflect the pattern of 
economic benefits consumed, over the estimated periods benefited, ranging from 
3 to 16 years, while indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. 
 
Long-lived assets, such as definite-lived intangibles and property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. When such 
events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed 
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual 
disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected 
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then an impairment 
charge would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair 
value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 
 
The Company tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least 
annually, during the fourth quarter, or whenever changes in circumstances or 
events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. The 
impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating 
a fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair 
value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, 
impairment is recognized for the difference. To determine fair value of other 
indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company uses an income approach, the 
relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a 
third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to 
use the comparable asset. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets&#x2019; fair 
values require significant judgments in determining both the assets&#x2019; 
estimated cash flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates 
applied to those cash flows to determine fair value. 
Business Combinations Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Business Combinations 
 
The Company accounts for business combinations in accordance with ASC Topic 805 
which requires, among other things, the acquiring entity in a business 
combination to recognize the fair value of all the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed; the recognition of acquisition-related costs in the 
consolidated results of operations; the recognition of restructuring costs in 
the consolidated results of operations for which the acquirer becomes obligated 
after the acquisition date; and contingent purchase consideration to be 
recognized at their fair values on the acquisition date with subsequent 
adjustments recognized in the consolidated results of operations. The fair 
values assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired are determined 
primarily by using an income approach which is based on assumptions and 
estimates made by management. Significant assumptions utilized in the income 
approach are based on company specific information and projections which are 
not observable in the market and are therefore considered Level 3 measurements. 
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identified assets 
and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Operating results of the acquired 
entity are reflected in the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial statements 
from date of acquisition. 
Deferred Charges, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Deferred Catalog Costs 
 
The Company capitalizes the costs of producing and distributing its catalogs. 
These costs are amortized in direct proportion to actual sales from the 
corresponding catalog over a period not to exceed 12 months. Included within 
prepaid and other current assets was $2.5 million and $0.2 million at June 28, 
2015 and June 29, 2014 respectively, relating to prepaid catalog expenses. 
Investment, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Investments 
 
The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of 
private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity 
method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant 
influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is 
generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the 
voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such 
as representation on the investee&#x2019;s Board of Directors, are considered 
in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records 
equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to 
reflect the Company&#x2019;s share of the earnings or losses of the investee. 
The Company&#x2019;s equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest 
in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, 
that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was 
$2.9 million as of June 28, 2015 and $3.2 million as of June 29, 2014, and is 
included in Other assets within the consolidated balance sheets. The 
Company&#x2019;s equity in the net income (loss) of Flores Online for each of 
the years ended June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014 was $(0.3) million and $(0.6) 
million. 
 
Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where 
the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are 
accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally 
recorded at cost, and are included within Other assets in the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the 
Company&#x2019;s cost method investments was $0.7 million as of June 28, 2015 
and $0.8 million as of June 29, 2014. In addition, the Company had notes 
receivable from a company it maintains an investment in of $0.3 million as of 
June 28, 2015 and $0.5 million as of June 29, 2014. As described in Note 4 
&#x201c;Acquisitions&#x201d;, on December 3, 2013, the Company increased its 
investment in iFlorist, resulting in a majority ownership interest (56%), 
through the conversion of notes receivable and the purchase of additional 
shares from the Company&#x2019;s founders. The acquisition of a majority 
interest in iFlorist resulted in the consolidation of iFlorist&#x2019;s 
operations. 
 
The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its 
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (&#x201c;NQDC Plan&#x201d;). These 
investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and 
are included in Other assets in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 10). 
 
Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative 
information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair 
value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge 
is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. 
Concentration Risk, Credit Risk, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Concentration of Credit Risk 
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant 
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents 
and accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with 
high quality financial institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect 
to accounts receivable is limited due to the Company's large number of 
customers and their dispersion throughout the United States, and the fact that 
a substantial portion of receivables are related to balances owed by major 
credit card companies. Allowances relating to consumer, corporate and franchise 
accounts receivable ($2.2 million at June 28, 2015 and $2.4 million at June 29, 
2014) have been recorded based upon previous experience and management&#x2019;s 
evaluation. 
Revenue Recognition, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Revenue Recognition 
 
Net revenues are generated by e-commerce operations from the Company&#x2019;s 
online and telephonic sales channels as well as other operations 
(retail/wholesale) and primarily consist of the selling price of merchandise, 
service or outbound shipping charges, net of discounts, returns and credits. 
Net revenues are recognized primarily upon product delivery and do not include 
sales tax. Net revenues generated by the Company&#x2019;s BloomNet Wire Service 
operations include membership fees as well as other products and service 
offerings to florists. Membership fees are recognized monthly in the period 
earned, and products sales are recognized upon product shipment with shipping 
terms primarily FOB shipping point. 
 
Initial franchise fees are recognized in income when the Company has 
substantially performed or satisfied all material services or conditions 
relating to the sale of the franchise and the fees are nonrefundable. Area 
development fees are nonrefundable and are recognized in income on a pro-rata 
basis when the conditions for revenue recognition under the individual area 
development agreements are met. Both initial franchise fees and area 
development fees are generally recognized upon the opening of a franchise store 
or upon termination of the agreement between the Company and the franchisee. 
Cost of Sales, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Cost of Revenues 
 
Cost of revenues consists primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid 
directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from 
inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and 
outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues includes labor and 
facility costs related to manufacturing and production operations. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Marketing and Sales 
 
Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional 
expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search expenses, retail store 
and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues), and 
customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the 
Company&#x2019;s departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising 
activities. 
 
The Company expenses all advertising costs, with the exception of catalog costs 
(see Deferred Catalog Costs above), at the time the advertisement is first 
shown. Advertising expense was $130.6 million, $83.0 million and $77.9 million 
for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
respectively. 
Research, Development, and Computer Software, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Technology and Development 
 
Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating 
expenses of the Company&#x2019;s information technology group, costs associated 
with its websites, including hosting, content development and maintenance and 
support costs related to the Company&#x2019;s order entry, customer service, 
fulfillment and database systems. Costs associated with the acquisition or 
development of software for internal use are capitalized if the software is 
expected to have a useful life beyond one year and amortized over the 
software&#x2019;s useful life, typically three to seven years. Costs associated 
with repair maintenance or the development of website content are expensed as 
incurred as the useful lives of such software modifications are less than one 
year. 
Share-based Compensation, Option and Incentive Plans Policy {Policy Text 
Block} 
 
Stock-Based Compensation 
 
The Company records compensation expense associated with restricted stock 
awards and other forms of equity compensation based upon the fair value of 
stock-based awards as measured at the grant date. The cost associated with 
share-based awards that are subject solely to time-based vesting requirements, 
less expected forfeitures, is recognized over the awards&#x2019; service period 
for the entire award on a straight-line basis. The cost associated with 
performance-based equity awards is recognized for each tranche over the service 
period, based on an assessment of the likelihood that the applicable 
performance goals will be achieved. 
Derivatives, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Derivatives and hedging 
 
The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes, 
but rather, on occasion to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
When entering into these transactions, the Company has managed its floating 
rate debt using interest rate swaps in order to reduce its exposure to the 
impact of changing interest rates on its consolidated results of operations and 
future cash outflows for interest. The Company did not have any open derivative 
positions at June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014. 
Income Tax, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Income Taxes 
 
The Company uses the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. 
The Company has established deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary 
differences between the financial reporting bases and the income tax bases of 
its assets and liabilities at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when 
such assets or liabilities are realized or settled. The Company recognizes as a 
deferred tax asset, the tax benefits associated with losses related to 
operations. Realization of these deferred tax assets assumes that we will be 
able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that these assets will be 
realized. The factors that the Company considers in assessing the likelihood of 
realization include the forecast of future taxable income and available tax 
planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax 
assets. 
 
The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if 
it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on 
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the 
position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a 
particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a 
greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The amount of 
unrecognized tax benefits (&#x201c;UTBs&#x201d;) is adjusted as appropriate for 
changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing 
tax law, new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new 
information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. 
We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to 
UTBs in income tax expense. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are 
required in determining if the &#x201c;more likely than not&#x201d; standard 
has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. 
Earnings Per Share, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Net Income (Loss) Per Share 
 
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted-average 
number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income 
(loss) per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common and 
dilutive common equivalent shares (consisting primarily of employee stock 
options and unvested restricted stock awards) outstanding during the period. 
Diluted net loss per share excludes the effect of potential common shares 
(consisting primarily of employee stock options and unvested restricted stock 
awards) that would be antidilutive. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements {Policy Text Block} 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, &#x201c;Customer's Accounting 
for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement.&#x201d; This standard provides 
guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement 
contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use 
software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to 
apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements 
entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is 
effective for the Company&#x2019;s fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. We are 
currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, &#x201c;Simplifying the 
Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs,&#x201d; which amends ASC 835-30, 
&#x201c;Interest &#x2013; Imputation of Interest.&#x201d; In order to simplify 
the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt 
issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the 
balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with 
the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the 
guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are 
similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, 
thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further 
states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future 
economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company&#x2019;s 
fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. 
 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, &#x201c;Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers.&#x201d; This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of 
revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with 
customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and 
uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended 
guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company&#x2019;s fiscal year 
ending July 1, 2018 and may be applied retrospectively. We are currently 
evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated 
financial statements. 
 
In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, &#x201c;Reporting Discontinued 
Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity,&#x201d; 
which amends ASC 205, &#x201c;Presentation of Financial Statements,&#x201d; and 
ASC 360, &#x201c;Property, Plant, and Equipment.&#x201d; ASU No. 2014-08 amends 
the requirements for reporting discontinued operations and requires additional 
disclosures about discontinued operations. Under the new guidance, only 
disposals representing a strategic shift in operations or that have a major 
effect on the Company's operations and financial results should be presented as 
discontinued operations. This new accounting guidance is effective for the 
Company&#x2019;s fiscal year ending July 3, 2016, and may be applied 
retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting 
this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, &#x201c;Presentation of an 
Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax 
Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists,&#x201d; which amends ASC 740, 
&#x201c;Income Taxes.&#x201d; The amendments provide guidance on the financial 
statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of 
a deferred tax asset or as a liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, 
similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The amendments are 
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning 
after December 15, 2013 and may be applied on either a prospective or 
retrospective basis. The provisions are effective for the Company&#x2019;s 
first quarter of fiscal year ending June 28, 2015. The adoption of these 
provisions did not have a significant impact on the Company&#x2019;s 
consolidated financial statements. 
Reclassification, Policy {Policy Text Block} 
 
Reclassifications 
 
Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to 
the presentation in the current fiscal year. 
 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Disclosure of recent accounting pronouncements that may impact the entity's financial reporting. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_RecentAccountingPronouncementsPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationsPolicy 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ConcentrationRiskCreditRisk 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ConsolidationPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CostOfSalesPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredChargesPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DerivativesPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerSharePolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiscalPeriod 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsGoodwillPolicy 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsIntangibleAssetsPolicy 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InvestmentPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PriorPeriodReclassificationAdjustmentDescription 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ResearchDevelopmentAndComputerSoftwarePolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_RevenueRecognitionPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SellingGeneralAndAdministrativeExpensesPolicyTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationOptionAndIncentivePlansPolicy 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_UseOfEstimates 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
            Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Tables)             12 Months Ended 
                                                                           Jun. 28, 2015 
Accounting Policies {Abstract} 
Property, Plant, and Equipment, Estimated Useful Lives {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
Building and building improvements (years)           10 40 
Leasehold improvements (years)                        3 10 
Furniture, fixtures and production equipment (years)  3 10 
Software (years)                                      3  7 
Orchards in production and land improvements         15 35 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Tabular disclosure of the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentEstimatedUsefulLivesTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Common Share from Continuing Operations (Tables) 12 Months Ended 
                                                                          Jun. 28, 2015 
Earnings Per Share {Abstract} 
Schedule of Earnings Per Share, Basic and Diluted {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 June 30, 2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share data) 
Numerator: 
Income from continuing operations          $ 19,384      $ 13,946      $ 15,722 
Less: Net loss attributable to                (903)         (697)             - 
noncontrolling interest 
Income from continuing operations          $ 20,287      $ 14,643      $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. 
Denominator: 
Weighted average shares outstanding          64,976        64,035        64,369 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Employee stock options (1)                    1,561         1,083           786 
Employee restricted stock awards              1,065         1,342         1,637 
                                              2,626         2,425         2,423 
Adjusted weighted-average shares and         67,602        66,460        66,792 
assumed conversions 
Net income per common share from 
continuing operations attributable to 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Basic                                        $ 0.31        $ 0.23        $ 0.24 
Diluted                                      $ 0.30        $ 0.22        $ 0.24 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EarningsPerShareAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfEarningsPerShareBasicAndDilutedTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
                Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Tables)                  12 Months Ended 
                                                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Harry and David Holdings, Inc. {Member} 
Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Tables) {Line Items} 
Schedule of Recognized Identified Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed {Table 
Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                          Harry & David Preliminary Measurement Period    Harry & David 
                          Purchase Price            Adjustments           Final 
                          Allocation 
 
                                                    (1)                   Purchase Price 
                                                                          Allocation 
                          (in thousands)            (in thousands)        (in thousands) 
Current assets                            $ 124,245               $ 2,023          $ 126,268 
Intangible assets                            17,209                24,618             41,827 
Goodwill                                     38,635              (22,593)             16,042 
Property, plant and                          91,023                14,056            105,079 
equipment 
Other assets                                    111                 (242)              (131) 
Total assets acquired                       271,223                17,862            289,085 
Current liabilities,                        104,335                   178            104,513 
including short-term 
debt 
Deferred tax liabilities                     23,252                18,796             42,048 
Other liabilities assumed                     1,136               (1,112)                 24 
Total liabilities assumed                   128,723                17,862            146,585 
Net assets acquired                       $ 142,500                     -          $ 142,500 
  

Business Acquisition, Pro Forma Information {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                                                   Year Ended 
                                                                   June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
Net revenues from continuing operations                              $ 1,152,103   $ 1,142,946 
Income from continuing operations attributable to                       $ 17,812      $ 19,439 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Diluted net income per common share attributable to                       $ 0.26        $ 0.29 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
  

 Fannie May Franchise LLC {Member} Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions 
(Tables) {Line Items} Schedule of Recognized Identified Assets Acquired and 
Liabilities Assumed {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                              Final 
                              Purchase Price Allocation 
                              (in thousands) 
Current Assets                                    $ 103 
Property, plant and equipment                       487 
Goodwill                                          5,783 
Net assets acquired                             $ 6,373 
  

 iFlorist {Member} Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Tables) {Line Items} 
Schedule of Recognized Identified Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed 
{Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                        iFlorist         Measurement Period  iFlorist Final 
                        Preliminary      Adjustments 
 
                        Purchase Price   (1)                 Purchase Price Allocation 
                        Allocation 
                        (in thousands)   (in thousands)      (in thousands) 
Current assets                     $ 856                   -                     $ 856 
Intangible assets                  3,177             (1,709)                     1,468 
Goodwill                           6,537               1,320                     7,857 
Property, plant and                2,006                   -                     2,006 
equipment 
Other assets                          30                   -                        30 
Total assets acquired             12,606               (389)                    12,217 
Current liabilities,               3,014                   -                     3,014 
including current 
maturities of long-term 
debt 
Deferred tax                         648               (389)                       259 
liabilities 
Other liabilities                     95                   -                        95 
assumed 
Total liabilities                  3,757               (389)                     3,368 
assumed 
Net assets acquired              $ 8,849                   -                   $ 8,849 
  

Schedule of Fair Value Assets and Liabilities of Purchase Price Components 
{Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                          iFlorist Fair Value of Purchase Price Components 
                          (in thousands) 
Cash                                                               $ 1,640 
Converted debt                                                       1,964 
Initial equity investment                                            1,629 
Noncontrolling interest                                              3,616 
Total purchase price                                               $ 8,849 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsTablesLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Tabular disclosure of the fair value of assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_ScheduleFairValueAssetsandLiabilitiesofPurchasePriceComponentsTableTextBlock 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionProFormaInformationTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfRecognizedIdentifiedAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
           Note 5 - Inventory (Tables)            12 Months Ended 
                                                   Jun. 28, 2015 
Inventory Disclosure {Abstract} 
Schedule of Inventory, Current {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                (in thousands) 
Finished goods       $ 43,254      $ 30,859 
Work-in-process        16,020         8,566 
Raw materials          33,889        19,095 
                     $ 93,163      $ 58,520 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfInventoryCurrentTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 6 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Tables)   12 Months Ended 
                                                      Jun. 28, 2015 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Disclosure {Abstract} 
Schedule of Goodwill {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                         Consumer Floral BloomNet Wire    Gourmet Food and Gift  Total 
                                         Service          Baskets (1) 
                                         (in thousands) 
Balance at June 30, 2013        $ 10,251                                $ 37,692 $ 47,943 
Acquisition of Fannie                                                      5,783    5,783 
May franchise stores 
Adjustments                         (97)                                       -     (97) 
Acquisition of iFlorist            6,537                                       -    6,537 
Balance at June 29, 2014        $ 16,691                                $ 43,475 $ 60,166 
Harry & David                                                             16,042   16,042 
acquisition 
iFlorist measurement               1,320                                            1,320 
period adjustment 
iFlorist translation               (429)                                            (429) 
adjustment 
Other                                                                        (2)      (2) 
Balance at June 28, 2015        $ 17,582                                $ 59,515 $ 77,097 
  

Schedule Of Finite Lived And Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets By Major Class 
{Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                         June 28, 2015                   June 29, 2014 
             Amortizatio Gross     Accumulated  Net      Gross    Accumulated  Net 
             n           Carrying  Amortization          Carrying Amortization 
                         Amount                          Amount 
 
             Period 
 
             (in years) 
                                   (in thousands) 
Intangible 
assets with 
determinable 
lives 
Investment         14 16   $ 7,420      $ 5,727  $ 1,693  $ 7,420      $ 5,621  $ 1,799 
in licenses 
Customer            3 10    21,815       14,595    7,220   17,313       12,818    4,495 
lists 
Other               5  8     3,665        2,597    1,068    2,538        2,538        - 
                            32,900       22,919    9,981   27,271       20,977    6,294 
Trademarks                  72,144            -   72,144   38,322            -   38,322 
with 
indefinite 
lives 
Total                    $ 105,044     $ 22,919 $ 82,125 $ 65,593     $ 20,977 $ 44,616 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Tabular disclosure of amortizable finite-lived intangibles assets, in total and 
by major class, including the gross carrying amount and accumulated 
amortization, and indefinite-lived intangible assets not subject to 
amortization, excluding goodwill, in total and by major class. A major class is 
composed of intangible assets that can be grouped together because they are 
similar, either by their nature or by their use in the operations of the 
company. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_ScheduleOfFiniteLivedAndIndefiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTableTextBlock 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfGoodwillTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment (Tables)  12 Months Ended 
                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Abstract} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                                (in thousands) 
Land                                                 $ 31,077       $ 2,907 
Orchards in production and land improvements            9,028             - 
Building and building improvements                     55,121        12,551 
Leasehold improvements                                 19,459        18,504 
Production equipment and furniture and fixtures        63,132        40,582 
Computer and telecommunication equipment               56,582        57,488 
Software                                              150,695       136,226 
Capital projects in progress - orchards                 7,335             - 
                                                      392,429       268,258 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization             222,329       208,111 
                                                    $ 170,100      $ 60,147 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
        Note 8 - Accrued Expenses (Tables)         12 Months Ended 
                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block Supplement {Abstract} 
Schedule of Accrued Liabilities {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                              June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                              (in thousands) 
Payroll and employee benefits      $ 36,370      $ 22,601 
Advertising and marketing            11,923        11,803 
Other                                25,346        15,113 
                                   $ 73,639      $ 49,517 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockSupplementAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfAccruedLiabilitiesTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 9 - Long-Term Debt (Tables)   12 Months Ended 
                                     Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block {Abstract} 
Schedule of Debt {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                           June 28, 2015 June 29, 2014 
                                           (in thousands) 
Revolver (1)                                           -             - 
Term Loan (1)                                    131,813             - 
Bank loan (2)                                        293           343 
Total debt                                       132,106           343 
Less: current maturities of long-term debt        14,543           343 
Long-term debt                                 $ 117,563             - 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfDebtTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
                   Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Tables)                    12 Months Ended 
                                                                                  Jun. 28, 2015 
Fair Value Disclosures {Abstract} 
Schedule of Fair Value, Assets and Liabilities Measured on Recurring Basis 
{Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                       Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                      Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                      Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                      (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 28, 
2015: 
Trading securities held in a                  $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
&#x201c;rabbi trust&#x201d; (1) 
                                              $ 3,118       $ 3,118 
  

 
 
 
                                       Carrying Value Fair Value Measurements 
 
                                                      Assets (Liabilities) 
                                                      Level 1       Level 2 Level 3 
                                                      (in thousands) 
Assets (liabilities) as of June 29, 
2014: 
Trading securities held in a                  $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
&#x201c;rabbi trust&#x201d; (1) 
                                              $ 2,146       $ 2,146 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfFairValueAssetsAndLiabilitiesMeasuredOnRecurringBasisTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
                     Note 11 - Income Taxes (Tables)                      12 Months Ended 
                                                                           Jun. 28, 2015 
Income Tax Disclosure {Abstract} 
Schedule of Components of Income Tax Expense (Benefit) {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                              Years ended 
                              June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                              2015     2014     2013 
                              (in thousands) 
Current provision (benefit): 
Federal                        $ 6,630  $ 6,439  $ 7,983 
State                            1,840    1,247    1,845 
Foreign                           (11)       11        - 
                                 8,459    7,697    9,828 
Deferred provision (benefit): 
Federal                          1,970      773    (730) 
State                              631       28     (25) 
Foreign                          (130)     (95)        - 
                                 2,471      706    (755) 
Income tax expense            $ 10,930  $ 8,403  $ 9,073 
  

Schedule of Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Tax at U.S. statutory rates                        35.0 %     35.0 %     35.0 % 
State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit      3.8        3.7        3.3 
Valuation allowance change                          2.6        1.5          - 
Rate differences                                    1.1        1.2      (0.3) 
Tax settlements                                     1.4      (1.0)        1.1 
Deductible stock-based compensation               (1.3)      (0.2)      (0.1) 
Domestic production deduction                     (2.2)      (1.9)      (1.8) 
Tax credits                                       (3.9)      (1.7)      (1.2) 
Other, net                                        (0.4)        1.0        0.6 
                                                   36.1 %     37.6 %     36.6 % 
  

Schedule of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                             Years ended 
                                             June 28,   June 29, 
 
                                             2015       2014 
                                             (in thousands) 
Deferred income tax assets: 
Net operating loss and credit carryforwards     $ 6,743  $ 4,342 
Accrued expenses and reserves                     5,921    6,178 
Stock-based compensation                          3,622    3,420 
Book in excess of tax depreciation                    -    1,322 
Gross deferred income tax assets                 16,286   15,262 
Less: Valuation allowance                       (4,589)  (2,241) 
                                                 11,697   13,021 
Deferred income tax liabilities: 
Other intangibles                              (23,307)  (6,512) 
Tax in excess of book depreciation             (26,197)        - 
                                               (49,504)  (6,512) 
Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ (37,807)  $ 6,509 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfComponentsOfIncomeTaxExpenseBenefitTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfDeferredTaxAssetsAndLiabilitiesTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfEffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
          Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Tables)           12 Months Ended 
                                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure of Compensation Related Costs, Share-based Payments 
{Abstract} 
Schedule of Compensation Cost for Share-based Payment 
Arrangements, Allocation of Share-based Compensation Costs by 
Plan {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                      Years Ended 
                                      June 28,      June 29, June 30, 
 
                                      2015          2014     2013 
                                      (in thousands, except per share 
                                      data) 
Stock options                                 $ 459    $ 420    $ 477 
Restricted stock awards                       5,503    4,244    3,806 
Total                                         5,962    4,664    4,283 
Deferred income tax benefit                   2,087    1,738    1,555 
Stock-based compensation expense, net       $ 3,875  $ 2,926  $ 2,728 
  

Schedule of Employee Service Share-based Compensation, Allocation of Recognized 
Period Costs {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                           Years Ended 
                           June 28, July 29, June 30, 
 
                           2015     2014     2013 
                           (in thousands) 
Marketing and sales         $ 1,866  $ 1,261  $ 1,499 
Technology and development      392      298      428 
General and administrative    3,704    3,105    2,356 
Total                       $ 5,962  $ 4,664  $ 4,283 
  

Schedule of Share-based Payment Award, Stock Options, Valuation Assumptions 
{Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                               Years ended 
                                               June 28,   June 29,   June 30, 
 
                                               2015       2014       2013 
Weighted average fair value of options granted   $ 4.86     $ 3.16     $ 2.95 
Expected volatility                                  52 %       61 %       72 % 
Expected life (in years)                            7.3        6.6        6.4 
Risk-free interest rate                             1.9 %      1.6 %      0.7 % 
Expected dividend yield                             0.0 %      0.0 %      0.0 % 
  

Schedule of Share-based Compensation, Stock Options, Activity {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                  Options   Weighted Weighted                Aggregate 
 
                                            Average  Average                 Intrinsic 
 
                                            Exercise Remaining Contractual   Value (000s) 
                                                     Term 
 
                                            Price    (in years) 
Outstanding beginning of period   4,339,790   $ 3.80 
Granted                              75,000   $ 8.83 
Exercised                         (853,170)   $ 6.44 
Forfeited/Expired                 (216,474)   $ 8.44 
Outstanding end of period         3,345,146   $ 2.93                     4.3     $ 24,910 
Options vested or expected to     3,241,485   $ 2.93                     4.2     $ 24,141 
vest at end of period 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015      2,095,246   $ 3.04                     3.1     $ 15,371 
  

Schedule of Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option 
Plans, by Exercise Price Range {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                     Options Outstanding                          Options Exercisable 
Exercise Price       Options     Weighted-              Weighted- Options     Weighted- 
 
                     Outstanding Average                Average   Exercisable Average 
 
                                 Remaining              Exercise              Exercise 
 
                                 Contractual Life       Price                 Price 
                                 (years) 
$1.69 &#x2013; 1.79    1,003,500                    5.3    $ 1.79     501,000    $ 1.79 
$2.22 &#x2013; 2.88    1,053,000                    6.3    $ 2.62     422,600    $ 2.61 
$3.11 &#x2013; 3.11      959,755                    0.9    $ 3.11     959,755    $ 3.11 
$3.26 &#x2013; 9.25      276,391                    4.2    $ 6.32     184,391    $ 6.09 
$9.74 &#x2013; 10.20      52,500                    5.9    $ 9.99      27,500    $ 9.80 
                       3,345,146                    4.3    $ 2.93   2,095,246    $ 3.04 
  

Schedule of Nonvested Share Activity {Table Text Block} 
 
 
 
                                       Shares      Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value 
Non-vested &#x2013; beginning of         2,686,685                                 $ 3.90 
period 
Granted                                    976,882                                 $ 8.09 
Vested                                 (1,154,173)                                 $ 3.48 
Forfeited                                (167,342)                                 $ 7.14 
Non-vested - end of period               2,342,052                                 $ 5.62 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisclosureOfCompensationRelatedCostsSharebasedPaymentsAbstract 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfCompensationCostForShareBasedPaymentArrangementsAllocationOfShareBasedCompensationCostsByPlanTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfEmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationAllocationOfRecognizedPeriodCostsTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfNonvestedShareActivityTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansByExercisePriceRangeTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfShareBasedCompensationStockOptionsActivityTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfShareBasedPaymentAwardStockOptionsValuationAssumptionsTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
                  Note 15 - Business Segments (Tables)                   12 Months Ended 
                                                                          Jun. 28, 2015 
Segment Reporting {Abstract} 
Schedule of Segment Reporting Information, by Segment {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                  Years ended 
Net revenues                      June 28,    June 29,  June 30, 
 
                                  2015        2014      2013 
                                  (in thousands) 
Net revenues: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral   $ 422,199 $ 421,336 $ 411,526 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)              85,968    84,199    81,822 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)       613,953   251,990   243,225 
Corporate                               1,020       797       789 
Intercompany eliminations             (1,634)   (1,977)   (1,865) 
Total net revenues                $ 1,121,506 $ 756,345 $ 735,497 
  

 
 
 
                                            Years ended 
Operating Income from Continuing Operations June 28, June 29, June 30, 
 
                                            2015     2014     2013 
                                            (in thousands) 
Segment Contribution Margin: 
1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral           $ 43,529 $ 40,252 $ 47,193 
BloomNet Wire Service (1)                     29,398   26,715   25,611 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets (1)               74,889   27,122   20,345 
Segment Contribution Margin Subtotal         147,816   94,089   93,149 
Corporate (2)                               (81,075) (50,535) (48,565) 
Depreciation and amortization               (29,124) (19,848) (18,798) 
Operating income                            $ 37,617 $ 23,706 $ 25,786 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ScheduleOfSegmentReportingInformationBySegmentTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SegmentReportingAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
             Note 16 - Discontinued Operations (Tables)               12 Months Ended 
                                                                       Jun. 28, 2015 
Discontinued Operations and Disposal Groups {Abstract} 
Disposal Groups, Including Discontinued Operations {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                                              Years Ended 
                                                June 28, 2015 June 29,2014 June 30, 2013 
                                                (in thousands, except per share data) 
Net revenues from discontinued operations                          $ 1,669       $ 5,154 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                       $ (86)     $ (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations,                      $ 815     $ (1,512) 
net of tax 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations                           $ 729     $ (3,401) 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationsAndDisposalGroupsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfDisposalGroupsIncludingDiscontinuedOperationsIncomeStatementBalanceSheetAndAdditionalDisclosuresTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
                 Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies (Tables)                  12 Months Ended 
                                                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Commitments and Contingencies Disclosure {Abstract} 
Schedule of Future Minimum Rental Payments for Operating Leases {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                             Operating Leases 
                             (in thousands) 
                        2016         $ 24,338 
                        2017           20,940 
                        2018           15,980 
                        2019           12,658 
                        2020            9,826 
Thereafter                             52,195 
Total minimum lease payments        $ 135,937 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingenciesDisclosureAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ScheduleOfFutureMinimumRentalPaymentsForOperatingLeasesTableTextBlock 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility (Tables) 12 Months Ended 
                                                                               Jun. 28, 2015 
Nonrecurring Items {Abstract} 
Schedule of Costs Related to Nonrecurring Event {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
Loss on inventory             $ 29,522 
Other fire related costs         3,487 
                                33,009 
Less: Fire related recoveries  (33,009 ) 
Fire related charges, net     &#x2014; 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NonrecurringItemsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
A tabular disclosure of incremental costs incurred due to a nonrecurring event. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_ScheduleOfCostsRelatedToNonrecurringEventTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
       Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Tables)         12 Months Ended 
                                                                         Jun. 28, 2015 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts {Abstract} 
Allowance for Credit Losses on Financing Receivables {Table Text Block} 
  

 
 
 
                                    Additions 
Description             Balance at  Charged to   Charged   Deductions-   Balance at 
                                                 to 
 
                        Beginning   Costs        Other     Describe (a)  End of 
                                                 Accounts- 
 
                        of Period   and Expenses Describe                Period 
Reserves and allowances 
deducted from asset 
accounts: 
Reserve for estimated 
doubtful 
accounts-accounts/notes 
receivable 
Year Ended June 28,     $ 2,443,000  $ 1,295,000           $ (1,503,000) $ 2,235,000 
2015 
Year Ended June 29,     $ 2,488,000  $ 1,656,000           $ (1,701,000) $ 2,443,000 
2014 
Year Ended June 30,     $ 2,408,000  $ 1,085,000           $ (1,005,000) $ 2,488,000 
2013 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AllowanceForCreditLossesOnFinancingReceivablesTableTextBlock 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        nonnum:textBlockItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAndQualifyingAccountsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Supplemental Cash Flow Information (Details)                12 Months Ended 
                    (USD $) 
    In Millions, unless otherwise specified 
                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Supplemental Cash Flow Elements {Abstract} 
Interest Paid                                            $ 4.3         $ 1.0         $ 1.1 
Income Taxes Paid, Net                                   $ 5.1         $ 7.0         $ 8.3 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxesPaidNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InterestPaid 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SupplementalCashFlowElementsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
          Note 1 - Description of Business (Details)            12 Months Ended 
                                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 
Disclosure Text Block {Abstract} 
Minimum Period Over Which Gifts Have Been Provided to Customers 40 years 
Percentage of Satisfaction Guaranteed                           100.00% 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the minimum period over which the entity has been providing gifts to customers for every 
occasion. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_MinimumPeriodOverWhichGiftsHaveBeenProvidedToCustomers 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the percentage of satisfaction guaranteed by the entity to customers. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_PercentageOfSatisfactionGuaranteed 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisclosureTextBlockAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
   Note 2 - Significant Accounting                 12 Months Ended 
     Policies (Details) (USD $) 
    In Millions, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Number of Weeks in Fiscal Year                   52            52            52 
Prepaid Catalog Expenses Current              $ 2.5         $ 0.2 
Cost Method Investments                         0.7           0.8 
Loans Receivable, Net                           0.3           0.5 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts                 2.2           2.4 
Receivable, Current 
Advertising Expense                           130.6          83.0          77.9 
Minimum Percentage Likelihood of Tax  50.00% 
Benefit Being Realized upon 
Settlement of Tax Position to Be 
Recognized 
International Sources {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Revenue, Net, Percent                 1.00%         2.00% 
iFlorist {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Maximum Period over Which Costs of    12 months 
Producing and Distributing Catalogs 
Amortized 
Equity Method Investment, Ownership   32.00% 
Percentage 
Equity Method Investments                       2.9           3.2 
Business Combination, Step            56.00% 
Acquisition, Equity Interest in 
Acquiree, Including Subsequent 
Acquisition, Percentage 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Finite-Lived Intangible Asset, Useful 3 years 
Life 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Useful 3 years 
Life 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Finite-Lived Intangible Asset, Useful 16 years 
Life 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Income (Loss) from Equity Method            $ (0.3)       $ (0.6) 
Investments 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting 
Policies (Details) {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Useful 7 years 
Life 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the maximum period over which costs of producing and distributing 
catalogs are amortized in direct proportion to actual sales from the 
corresponding catalog. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_MaximumPeriodOverWhichCostsOfProducingAndDistributingCatalogsAmortized 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the minimum percentage likelihood of a tax benefit being realized 
upon settlement of tax position for the benefit to be recognized in the 
financial statements. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_MinimumPercentageLikelihoodOfTaxBenefitBeingRealizedUponSettlementOfTaxPositionToBeRecognized 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note2SignificantAccountingPoliciesDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Disclosure of the number of weeks included in the financial results of each respective fiscal year. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NumberOfWeeksInFiscalYear 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the catalog expenses paid in advance for capitalized costs that will 
be expensed with the passage of time or the occurrence of a triggering event, 
and will be charged against earnings within one year or the normal operating 
cycle, if longer. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_PrepaidCatalogExpensesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Percentage of total revenue from sale of goods and services rendered during the 
reporting period, in the normal course of business, reduced by sales returns 
and allowances, and sales discounts. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_RevenueNetPercent 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AdvertisingExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsReceivableCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireeIncludingSubsequentAcquisitionPercentage 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CostMethodInvestments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EquityMethodInvestmentOwnershipPercentage 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EquityMethodInvestments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromEquityMethodInvestments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LoansReceivableNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentUsefulLife 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
   Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and    12 Months Ended 
                                  Equipment 
                                                                                Jun. 28, 2015 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  10 years 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  3 years 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  3 years 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  3 years 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  15 years 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  40 years 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  10 years 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  10 years 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  7 years 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies (Details) - Property, Plant and 
Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment                                                  35 years 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note2SignificantAccountingPoliciesDetailsPropertyPlantandEquipmentLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentUsefulLife 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Common Share               12 Months Ended 
from Continuing Operations (Details) 
  (Employee Stock Option {Member}) 
    In Millions, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Employee Stock Option {Member} 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Common Share 
from Continuing Operations (Details) 
{Line Items} 
Antidilutive Securities Excluded from           0.1           1.2           2.0 
Computation of Earnings Per Share, 
Amount 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note3NetIncomePerCommonSharefromContinuingOperationsDetailsLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_AntidilutiveSecuritiesExcludedFromComputationOfEarningsPerShareAmount 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Common Share             12 Months Ended 
from Continuing Operations (Details) 
 - Computation of Basic and Diluted 
 Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share 
               (USD $) 
In Thousands, except Per Share data, 
     unless otherwise specified 
                                        Jun. 28,     Jun. 29,     Jun. 30, 
                                          2015         2014         2013 
Numerator: 
Income from continuing operations (in $ 19,384     $ 13,946     $ 15,722 
Dollars) 
Less: Net loss attributable to           (903)        (697) 
noncontrolling interest (in Dollars) 
Income from continuing operations     $ 20,287     $ 14,643     $ 15,722 
attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 
Inc. (in Dollars) 
Denominator: 
Weighted average shares outstanding     64,976       64,035       64,369 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Dilutive securities                      2,626        2,425        2,423 
Adjusted weighted-average shares and    67,602       66,460       66,792 
assumed conversions 
Basic (in Dollars per share)            $ 0.31       $ 0.23       $ 0.24 
Diluted (in Dollars per share)          $ 0.30       $ 0.22       $ 0.24 
Employee Stock Option {Member} 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Dilutive securities                      1,561 {1}    1,083 {1}      786 {1} 
Restricted Stock {Member} 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Dilutive securities                      1,065        1,342        1,637  

 
 
 
{1} The effect of options to purchase 0.1 million, 1.2 million and 2.0 million 
    shares for the years ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, 
    respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share on 
    a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DenominatorAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_EffectOfDilutiveSecuritiesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NumeratorAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsPerBasicShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsPerDilutedShare 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:perShareItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_IncrementalCommonSharesAttributableToShareBasedPaymentArrangements 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NetIncomeLossAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_WeightedAverageNumberOfDilutedSharesOutstanding 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_WeightedAverageNumberOfSharesOutstandingBasic 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
    Note 4 -                                        0 Months     9 Months   12 Months                                               12 Months Ended                                                           0 Months                                     0 Months Ended                0 Months  12 Months   0 Months   1 Months     3 Months Ended     33 Months            0 Months            0 Months Ended 
Acquisitions and                                      Ended        Ended      Ended                                                                                                                             Ended                                                                     Ended      Ended      Ended      Ended                            Ended               Ended 
  Dispositions 
 (Details) (USD 
       $) 
                  Jun. 28,   Jun. 29,   Jun. 30,  Sep. 30, 2014  Jun. 28,    Jun. 28,   Sep. 30,   Jun. 28,   Jun. 28,     Jun. 28,    Jun. 29,     Jun. 29,    Jun. 28,    Jun. 29,     Sep. 30,   Jun. 27,  Dec. 03,  Dec. 28,   Dec. 03,   Dec. 02,  Dec. 03,   Mar. 11,   Dec. 02,   Jun. 27,   Jun. 29,   Jun. 27,   Nov. 30,   Jun. 29,   Jan. 01,   Jun. 29,  Sep. 30,  Dec. 03, Dec. 03, Sep. 30,  Sep. 30, 
                    2015       2014       2013      Harry and   2015 Harry  2015 Harry 2014 Harry 2015 Harry 2015 Harry   2015 Harry  2014 Harry   2014 Harry  2015 Harry  2014 Harry   2014 Harry    2014      2013      2014       2013       2013      2013       2013       2013     2014 GB    2014 GB      2014       2011       2014       2012       2014      2014      2013     2013     2014      2014 
                                                      David      and David  and David  and David  and David   and David   and David    and David   and David    and David   and David   and David    Fannie   iFlorist  iFlorist   iFlorist   iFlorist  iFlorist  Flowerscorp   Other   Chocolates Chocolates Fannie May Fannie May Fannie May Fannie May Fannie May Customer  Customer Customer Customer  Customer 
                                                    Holdings,    Holdings,  Holdings,  Holdings,  Holdings,   Holdings,   Holdings,    Holdings,   Holdings,    Holdings,   Holdings,   Holdings,      May    {Member}  {Member}   {Member}   {Member}  {Member}    Pty Ltd    Assets      LLC        LLC     Franchise  Franchise  Franchise  Franchise  Franchise    Lists    Lists    Lists     Lists     Lists 
                                                  Inc. {Member}    Inc.        Inc.       Inc.       Inc.       Inc.         Inc.        Inc.         Inc.        Inc.        Inc.         Inc.     Franchise                                           Initial    Trademark  {Member}   {Member}   {Member}     LLC        LLC        LLC        LLC        LLC     {Member}  {Member} {Member} {Member}  {Member} 
                                                                 {Member}    {Member}   {Member}   {Member}   {Member}     {Member}    {Member}     {Member}    {Member}    {Member}     {Member}      LLC                                               Equity    {Member}   iFlorist  Fannie May Fannie May  {Member}   {Member}   {Member}   {Member}   {Member}  Harry and iFlorist iFlorist  Minimum   Maximum 
                                                                                                   Deferred  Fair Value  Elimination  Elimination  Additional  Incremental Incremental  Leaseholds  {Member}                                           Investment             {Member}  Franchise  Franchise      GB         GB         GB         GB         GB       David   {Member} {Member} {Member}  {Member} 
                                                                                                   Revenue   Adjustment       of          of      Amortization  Impact of   Impact of      and                                                          {Member}                           LLC        LLC     Chocolates Chocolates Chocolates Chocolates Chocolates Holdings,                   Harry and Harry and 
                                                                                                  Adjustment     to      Transaction  Transaction   Expense      Credit      Credit     Leasehold                                                                                        {Member}   {Member}     LLC        LLC        LLC        LLC        LLC       Inc.                        David     David 
                                                                                                   {Member}   Inventory   Costs with  Costs with    {Member}    Facility    Facility   Improvements                                                                                                            {Member}   {Member}   {Member}   {Member}   {Member}  {Member}                    Holdings, Holdings, 
                                                                                                              {Member}        No          No                    {Member}    {Member}     {Member}                                                                                                                                                                                                  Inc.      Inc. 
                                                                                                                          Continuing  Continuing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 {Member}  {Member} 
                                                                                                                          Impact on    Impact on 
                                                                                                                          Operating    Operating 
                                                                                                                         Results from   Results 
                                                                                                                          Continuing     from 
                                                                                                                          Operations  Continuing 
                                                                                                                           {Member}   Operations 
                                                                                                                                       {Member} 
Note 4 - 
Acquisitions and 
Dispositions 
(Details) {Line 
Items} 
Business                                          $ 142,500,000                                                                                                                                                                                                   $ 4,000,000 
Combination, 
Consideration 
Transferred 
Business                                                     48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16 
Acquisition 
Number of Retail 
Store Locations 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                  1,100,000                                                                                                                                                                  5,200,000           700,000 
Combination, 
Recognized 
Identifiable 
Assets Acquired 
and Liabilities 
Assumed, 
Finite-Lived 
Intangibles 
Finite-Lived                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 years           4 years   11 years 
Intangible 
Assets, 
Remaining 
Amortization 
Period 
Business                                                                               35,500,000                                                                                                                                     700,000 
Combination, 
Recognized 
Identifiable 
Assets Acquired 
and Liabilities 
Assumed, 
Indefinite-Lived 
Intangible 
Assets 
Goodwill         77,097,000 60,166,000 47,943,000                16,042,000 16,042,000 16,000,000                                                                                                   5,783,000           7,857,000   7,900,000 
Business                                                        359,700,000 
Combination, Pro 
Forma 
Information, 
Revenue of 
Acquiree since 
Acquisition 
Date, Actual 
Business                                                         24,600,000 
Combination, Pro 
Forma 
Information, 
Operating Income 
(Loss) of 
Acquiree since 
Acquisition 
Date, Actual 
Business                                                                                           1,600,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information, 
Adjustment, 
Deferred Revenue 
Business                                                                                                     (4,800,000) 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information, 
Adjustment, 
Inventory 
Business                                                                                                                 (17,400,000) 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information 
Adjustment 
Acquisition and 
Integration 
Costs 
Business                                                                    11,900,000                                                    400,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information 
Adjustment, 
Acquisition 
Costs 
Business                                                                     3,000,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information 
Adjustment, 
Integration 
Costs 
Business                                                                     2,500,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information 
Adjustment 
Severance Costs 
Impact 
Business                                                                                                                                               200,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information 
Adjustment, 
Amortization 
Expense 
Business                                                                                                                                                         1,100,000   4,800,000 
Combination, 
Proforma 
Information, 
Adjustment, 
Interest Expense 
Impact 
Deferred                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         700,000 
Revenue, Revenue 
Recognized 
Area Development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,200,000 
Agreement 
Proceeds from 
Non Performance 
Promissory Note 
Franchise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,000,000    200,000 
Revenue 
Number of Retail                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17 
Stores Sold 
Payments to                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,640,000                                                                  6,400,000 
Acquire 
Businesses, 
Gross 
Cost Method         700,000    800,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,600,000 
Investments 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19.90% 
Combination, 
Step 
Acquisition, 
Equity Interest 
in Acquiree, 
Percentage 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56.20% 
Acquisition, 
Percentage of 
Voting Interests 
Acquired 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,964,000 
Combination, 
Consideration 
Transferred, 
Other 
Gain (Loss) on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 
Investments 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $ 3,616,000 
Combination, 
Acquisition of 
Less than 100 
Percent, 
Noncontrolling 
Interest, Fair 
Value 
Fair Value                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.00% 
Inputs, Control 
Premium 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the amount of cash received from a non-performance promissory note 
due to a counter-party failing to open the specified number of stores as set 
forth in an area development agreement. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_AreaDevelopmentAgreementProceedsFromNonPerformancePromissoryNote 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the number of retail store locations acquired by the entity in business acquisition. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_BusinessAcquisitionNumberOfRetailStoreLocations 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to acquisition and integration costs in connection with pro forma 
information for a business combination. Excludes business combination and 
measurement period adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentAcquisitionAndIntegrationCosts 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to acquisition costs in connection with pro forma information for a 
business combination. Excludes business combination and measurement period 
adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentAcquisitionCosts 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to amortization expense in connection with pro forma information for a 
business combination. Excludes business combination and measurement period 
adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentAmortizationExpense 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to deferred revenue in connection with pro forma information for a 
business combination. Excludes business combination and measurement period 
adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentDeferredRevenue 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period for integration costs in connection with pro forma information for a 
business combination. Excludes business combination and measurement period 
adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentIntegrationCosts 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to reflect the incremental impact of interest expense in connection with 
pro forma information for a business combination. Excludes business combination 
and measurement period adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentInterestExpenseImpact 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to inventory in connection with pro forma information for a business 
combination. Excludes business combination and measurement period adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentInventory 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of any adjustment during the reporting 
period to reflect the incremental impact of severance costs in connection with 
pro forma information for a business combination. Excludes business combination 
and measurement period adjustments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProformaInformationAdjustmentSeveranceCostsImpact 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
This element represents the amount of operating income (loss) of the acquiree 
since the acquisition date included in the consolidated income statement for 
the reporting period. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_BusinessCombinationProFormaInformationOperatingIncomeLossOfAcquireeSinceAcquisitionDateActual 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the number of sold retail stores. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NumberOfRetailStoresSold 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionPercentageOfVotingInterestsAcquired 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationAcquisitionOfLessThan100PercentNoncontrollingInterestFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationConsiderationTransferred1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationConsiderationTransferredOther1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationProFormaInformationRevenueOfAcquireeSinceAcquisitionDateActual 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedIndefiniteLivedIntangibleAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedIntangibles 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireePercentage 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CostMethodInvestments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredRevenueRevenueRecognized 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FairValueInputsControlPremium 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsRemainingAmortizationPeriod1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FranchiseRevenue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GainLossOnInvestments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 4 -    Jun.   Jun.   Jun.   Jun. 28,    Sep. 30,   Sep. 30,  Jun. 28, 2015 
Acquisitions  28,    29,    30,   2015 Harry  2014 Harry 2014 Harry   Harry and 
    and       2015   2014   2013   and David  and David  and David      David 
Dispositions                       Holdings,  Holdings,  Holdings,  Holdings, Inc. 
(Details) -                          Inc.        Inc.       Inc.       {Member} 
  Puchase                          {Member}    {Member}   {Member}    Scenario, 
   Price                                                 Scenario,    Adjustment 
 Allocation                                              Previously    {Member} 
of Harry and                                              Reported 
 David (USD                                               {Member} 
     $) 
     In 
 Thousands, 
   unless 
 otherwise 
 specified 
Note 4 - 
Acquisitions 
and 
Dispositions 
(Details) - 
Puchase 
Price 
Allocation 
of Harry and 
David {Line 
Items} 
Current                             $ 126,268             $ 124,245    $ 2,023 {1} 
assets 
Intangible                             41,827                17,209     24,618 {1} 
assets 
Goodwill     77,097 60,166 47,943      16,042     16,000     38,635   (22,593) {1} 
Property,                             105,079                91,023     14,056 {1} 
plant and 
equipment 
Other assets                            (131)                   111      (242) {1} 
Total assets                          289,085               271,223     17,862 {1} 
acquired 
Current                               104,513               104,335        178 {1} 
liabilities, 
including 
short-term 
debt 
Deferred tax                           42,048                23,252     18,796 {1} 
liabilities 
Other                                      24                 1,136    (1,112) {1} 
liabilities 
assumed 
Total                                 146,585               128,723     17,862 {1} 
liabilities 
assumed 
Net assets                          $ 142,500             $ 142,500            {1} 
acquired  

 
 
 
{1} The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of the 
    valuations related to property plant and equipment and intangible assets 
    andresulted in the following: an increase in property, plant and equipment 
    and intangible assets, with the related increase in long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and corresponding decrease in goodwill. The measurement period 
    adjustments did not have a significant impact on the Company's condensed 
    consolidated statements of income for the year ended June 28, 2015. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsPuchasePriceAllocationofHarryandDavidLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedCurrentAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedCurrentLiabilities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedDeferredTaxLiabilitiesNoncurrent 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedIntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedLiabilities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedNoncurrentLiabilitiesOther 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedOtherNoncurrentAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Details) -        12 Months Ended 
Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information (Harry and 
       David Holdings, Inc. {Member}, USD $) 
    In Thousands, except Per Share data, unless 
                otherwise specified 
                                                     Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
Harry and David Holdings, Inc. {Member} 
Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Details) - 
Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information {Line 
Items} 
Net revenues from continuing operations                $ 1,152,103   $ 1,142,946 
Income from continuing operations attributable to         $ 17,812      $ 19,439 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. 
Diluted net income per common share attributable to         $ 0.26        $ 0.29 
1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. (in Dollars per share) 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsUnauditedProFormaFinancialInformationLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionProFormaIncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeChangesInAccountingAndExtraordinaryItemsNetOfTaxPerShareDiluted 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionsProFormaIncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeChangesInAccountingAndExtraordinaryItemsNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionsProFormaRevenue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
     Note 4 -      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013   Jun. 27, 2014 
 Acquisitions and                                                Fannie May 
   Dispositions                                                Franchise LLC 
   (Details) -                                                    {Member} 
  Purchase Price 
  Allocation of 
Fannie May Retail 
  Stores (USD $) 
  In Thousands, 
 unless otherwise 
    specified 
Note 4 - 
Acquisitions and 
Dispositions 
(Details) - 
Purchase Price 
Allocation of 
Fannie May Retail 
Stores {Line 
Items} 
Current Assets                                                            $ 103 
Property, plant                                                             487 
and equipment 
Goodwill                  77,097        60,166        47,943              5,783 
Net assets                                                              $ 6,373 
acquired 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsPurchasePriceAllocationofFannieMayRetailStoresLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedCurrentAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredGoodwillAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Details) -  0 Months Ended 
   Fair Value of the Acquisition Purchase Price 
       (iFlorist) (iFlorist {Member}, USD $) 
     In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
                                                    Dec. 03, 2013  Dec. 03, 2013 
iFlorist {Member} 
Note 4 - Acquisitions and Dispositions (Details) - 
Fair Value of the Acquisition Purchase Price 
(iFlorist) {Line Items} 
Cash                                                       $ 1,640 
Converted debt                                               1,964 
Initial equity investment                                    1,629 
Noncontrolling interest                                                    3,616 
Total purchase price                                       $ 8,849 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsFairValueoftheAcquisitionPurchasePriceiFloristLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationAcquisitionOfLessThan100PercentNoncontrollingInterestFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationConsiderationTransferredIncludingEquityInterestInAcquireeHeldPriorToCombination1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationConsiderationTransferredOther1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireeFairValue1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 4 -    Jun.   Jun.   Jun.   Dec. 28,    Dec. 03,   Dec. 28,  Dec. 28, 2014 
Acquisitions  28,    29,    30,      2014        2013       2014       iFlorist 
    and       2015   2014   2013   iFlorist    iFlorist   iFlorist     {Member} 
Dispositions                       {Member}    {Member}   {Member}    Scenario, 
(Details) -                                              Scenario,    Adjustment 
  Puchase                                                Previously    {Member} 
   Price                                                  Reported 
 Allocation                                               {Member} 
of iFlorist 
  (USD $) 
     In 
 Thousands, 
   unless 
 otherwise 
 specified 
Note 4 - 
Acquisitions 
and 
Dispositions 
(Details) - 
Puchase 
Price 
Allocation 
of iFlorist 
{Line Items} 
Current                                 $ 856                 $ 856            {1} 
assets 
Intangible                              1,468                 3,177    (1,709) {1} 
assets 
Goodwill     77,097 60,166 47,943       7,857      7,900      6,537      1,320 {1} 
Property,                               2,006                 2,006            {1} 
plant and 
equipment 
Other assets                               30                    30            {1} 
Total assets                           12,217                12,606      (389) {1} 
acquired 
Current                                 3,014                 3,014            {1} 
liabilities, 
including 
current 
maturities 
of long-term 
debt 
Deferred tax                              259                   648      (389) {1} 
liabilities 
Other                                      95                    95            {1} 
liabilities 
assumed 
Total                                   3,368                 3,757      (389) {1} 
liabilities 
assumed 
Net assets                            $ 8,849               $ 8,849            {1} 
acquired  

 
 
 
{1} The measurement period adjustments were due to the finalization of 
    valuations related to intangible assets and resulted in the following: a 
    decrease to intangible assets and the related long-term deferred tax 
    liabilities and an increase to goodwill. The measurement period adjustments 
    did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated statements 
    of income for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2015. In addition, 
    these adjustments did not have a significant impact on our condensed 
    consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2014. Therefore, we have not 
    retrospectively adjusted this financial information. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note4AcquisitionsandDispositionsDetailsPuchasePriceAllocationofiFloristLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedCurrentAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedCurrentLiabilities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedDeferredTaxLiabilitiesNoncurrent 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedIntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedLiabilities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedNoncurrentLiabilitiesOther 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedOtherNoncurrentAssets 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 5 - Inventory (Details) - Inventory (USD $) Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
    In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Inventory {Abstract} 
Finished goods                                        $ 43,254      $ 30,859 
Work-in-process                                         16,020         8,566 
Raw materials                                           33,889        19,095 
                                                      $ 93,163      $ 58,520 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_InventoryAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryFinishedGoodsNetOfReserves 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryRawMaterialsNetOfReserves 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryWorkInProcessNetOfReserves 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 6 - Goodwill and               12 Months Ended 
   Intangible Assets 
   (Details) (USD $) 
                        Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 Mar. 29, 2015 
Note 6 - Goodwill and 
Intangible Assets 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Goodwill and Intangible           $ 0 
Asset Impairment 
Amortization of             2,100,000     1,600,000     1,800,000 
Intangible Assets 
Finite-Lived Intangible     2,100,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, Next Twelve 
Months 
Finite-Lived Intangible     1,500,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, Year Two 
Finite-Lived Intangible     1,300,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, Year Three 
Finite-Lived Intangible                                                 700,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, Year Four 
Finite-Lived Intangible       600,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, Year Five 
Finite-Lived Intangible     3,800,000 
Assets, Amortization 
Expense, after Year 
Five 
Gourmet Food & Gift 
Baskets {Member} 
Note 6 - Goodwill and 
Intangible Assets 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Goodwill, Impaired,      $ 71,100,000 
Accumulated Impairment 
Loss 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note6GoodwillandIntangibleAssetsDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AmortizationOfIntangibleAssets 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseAfterYearFive 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseNextTwelveMonths 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseYearFive 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseYearFour 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseYearThree 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAmortizationExpenseYearTwo 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetImpairment 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillImpairedAccumulatedImpairmentLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 6 -        12 Months Ended                          12 Months Ended                             12 Months Ended                                     12 Months Ended                        12 Months 
 Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                          Ended 
    and 
Intangible 
  Assets 
(Details) - 
Goodwill by 
  Segment 
  (USD $) 
    In 
Thousands, 
  unless 
 otherwise 
 specified 
            Jun. 28, Jun. 29, Jun. 29, Jun. 28,   Jun. 28,     Jun. 29,   Jun. 29,  Jun. 27,  Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 28, Jun. 29, Dec. 28, Dec. 03, Jun. 28, Jun. 29, Jun. 29, Jun. 28,  Sep. 30,  Jun. 28, 2015 
              2015     2014     2014     2015   2015 Gourmet 2014 Gourmet   2014      2014     Fannie May     2015     2014     2014     2013     2015     2014     2014     2015      2014      Harry and 
                              Consumer Consumer Food & Gift  Food & Gift   Fannie    Fannie   Franchise LLC iFlorist iFlorist iFlorist iFlorist iFlorist iFlorist iFlorist Harry and Harry and     David 
                               Floral   Floral    Baskets      Baskets       May       May      {Member}    {Member} {Member} {Member} {Member} {Member} {Member} {Member}   David     David     Holdings, 
                              {Member} {Member}   {Member}     {Member}   Franchise Franchise Gourmet Food                                      Consumer Consumer Gourmet  Holdings, Holdings, Inc. {Member} 
                                                                             LLC       LLC       & Gift                                          Floral   Floral   Food &    Inc.      Inc.    Gourmet Food 
                                                                          {Member}  {Member}     Baskets                                        {Member} {Member}   Gift   {Member}  {Member}     & Gift 
                                                                                                {Member}                                                          Baskets                         Baskets 
                                                                                                                                                                  {Member}                       {Member} 
Goodwill 
{Line 
Items} 
Goodwill    $ 60,166 $ 47,943 $ 10,251 $ 17,582 $ 43,475 {1} $ 37,692 {1}             $ 5,783                                  $ 7,857  $ 7,900                                       $ 16,000 
Goodwill                                                                      5,783               5,783 {1}             6,537                               6,537 {1}         16,042              16,042 {1} 
acquistions 
Measurement              (97)     (97)                                {1}                                      1,320                               1,320 
period 
adjustments 
iFlorist                                                                                                       (429)                               (429) 
translation 
adjustment 
Other            (2)                                 (2) {1} 
Goodwill    $ 77,097 $ 60,166 $ 16,691 $ 17,582 $ 59,515 {1} $ 43,475 {1}             $ 5,783                                  $ 7,857  $ 7,900                             $ 16,042  $ 16,000  

 
 
 
{1} The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is 
    reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which 
    were recorded in the GFGB segment during fiscal 2009. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Goodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillAcquiredDuringPeriod 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillOtherChanges 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillPurchaseAccountingAdjustments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_GoodwillTranslationAdjustments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 6 -                                                                                                                   12 Months Ended 
Goodwill and 
 Intangible 
   Assets 
(Details) - 
   Other 
 Intangible 
Assets (USD 
     $) 
     In 
 Thousands, 
   unless 
 otherwise 
 specified 
             Jun. 28, Jun. 29,  Jun. 28,   Jun. 29,  Jun. 28, Jun. 29,  Jun. 28,   Jun. 29,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Jun. 28, 
               2015     2014      2015       2014      2015     2014   2015 Other 2014 Other   2015      2015      2015      2015      2015      2015      2015      2015 
                               Licensing  Licensing  Customer Customer Intangible Intangible Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Maximum   Maximum   Maximum   Maximum 
                               Agreements Agreements  Lists    Lists     Assets     Assets   {Member}  {Member}  {Member}  {Member}  {Member}  {Member}  {Member}  {Member} 
                                {Member}   {Member}  {Member} {Member}  {Member}   {Member}           Licensing  Customer   Other             Licensing  Customer   Other 
                                                                                                      Agreements  Lists   Intangible          Agreements  Lists   Intangible 
                                                                                                       {Member}  {Member}   Assets             {Member}  {Member}   Assets 
                                                                                                                           {Member}                                {Member} 
Intangible 
assets with 
determinable 
lives 
Amortization                                                                                 3 years  14 years   3 years  5 years    16 years 16 years   10 years 8 years 
Period 
Gross        $ 32,900 $ 27,271    $ 7,420    $ 7,420 $ 21,815 $ 17,313    $ 3,665    $ 2,538 
Carrying 
Amount 
Accumulated    22,919   20,977      5,727      5,621   14,595   12,818      2,597      2,538 
Amortization 
Net             9,981    6,294      1,693      1,799    7,220    4,495      1,068 
Trademarks     72,144   38,322 
with 
indefinite 
lives 
Trademarks     72,144   38,322 
with 
indefinite 
lives 
Total         105,044   65,593 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
Total          22,919   20,977      5,727      5,621   14,595   12,818      2,597      2,538 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
Total        $ 82,125 $ 44,616 
identifiable 
intangible 
assets 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_IntangibleAssetsWithDeterminableLivesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAccumulatedAmortization 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsGross 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IndefiniteLivedTrademarks 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IntangibleAssetsGrossExcludingGoodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IntangibleAssetsNetExcludingGoodwill 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
    Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment                  12 Months Ended 
              (Details) (USD $) 
   In Millions, unless otherwise specified 
                                               Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Abstract} 
Depreciation                                          $ 27.0        $ 18.2        $ 17.0 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_Depreciation 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment (Details) - Property, Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
                Plant and Equipment (USD $) 
          In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                             $ 392,429     $ 268,258 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization                          222,329       208,111 
                                                                   170,100        60,147 
Land {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                31,077         2,907 
Orchards in Production and Land Improvements {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                 9,028 
Building and Building Improvements {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                55,121        12,551 
Leasehold Improvements {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                19,459        18,504 
Furniture Fixtures and Equipment {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                63,132        40,582 
Computer and Telecommunication Equipment {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                                56,582        57,488 
Software and Software Development Costs {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                               150,695       136,226 
Capital Projects in Progress - Orchards {Member} 
Property, Plant and Equipment {Line Items} 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross                               $ 7,335 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_AccumulatedDepreciationDepletionAndAmortizationPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 8 - Accrued Expenses (Details) - Accrued Expenses (USD $) Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
           In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Accrued Expenses {Abstract} 
Payroll and employee benefits                                       $ 36,370      $ 22,601 
Advertising and marketing                                             11,923        11,803 
Other                                                                 25,346        15,113 
                                                                    $ 73,639      $ 49,517 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_AccruedExpensesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccruedLiabilitiesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AccruedMarketingCostsCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EmployeeRelatedLiabilitiesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherAccruedLiabilitiesCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 9 -   12 Months                             0 Months                0 Months    12 Months Ended                12 Months Ended 
 Long-Term    Ended                                Ended                    Ended 
   Debt 
 (Details) 
  (USD $) 
             Jun. 28,    Jun. 28, 2015   Jun. 29, Sep. 30, Sep. 30, 2014  Sep. 30,   Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Sep. 30,   Jun. 28,  Jun. 28,  Sep. 30, 
               2015        Term Loan       2014     2014      Credit     2014 Credit   2015      2015      2014       2015      2015      2014 
                           {Member}        Term    Credit  Facility 2014  Facility    Minimum  Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum    Maximum 
                                           Loan   Facility {Member} Term    2014     {Member}  {Member}  {Member}   {Member}  {Member}  {Member} 
                                         {Member}   2014   Loan {Member}  {Member}    Line of  Line of    Credit     Line of  Line of    Credit 
                                                  {Member}                Revolving   Credit    Credit   Facility    Credit    Credit   Facility 
                                                    Term                   Credit    {Member}  {Member}    2014     {Member}  {Member}    2014 
                                                    Loan                  Facility    London     ABR     {Member}    London     ABR     {Member} 
                                                  {Member}                {Member}   Interbank {Member}  Revolving  Interbank {Member}  Revolving 
                                                                                      Offered             Credit     Offered             Credit 
                                                                                       Rate              Facility     Rate              Facility 
                                                                                      (LIBOR)            {Member}    (LIBOR)            {Member} 
                                                                                     {Member}                       {Member} 
Note 9 - 
Long-Term 
Debt 
(Details) 
{Line 
Items} 
Debt                                              5 years 
Instrument, 
Term 
Long-term              $ 131,813,000 {1} {1}               $ 142,500,000 
Debt 
Line of                                                                                                 100,000,000                    200,000,000 
Credit 
Facility, 
Maximum 
Borrowing 
Capacity 
Debt                20 
Instrument, 
Number of 
Installment 
Payment 
Debt        10.00% 
Instrument, 
Principal 
Payment, 
Percentage 
in Year One 
and Two 
Debt        15.00% 
Instrument, 
Principal 
Payment, 
Percentage 
In Year 
Three and 
Four 
Debt        20.00% 
Instrument, 
Principal 
Payment, 
Percentage 
In Year 
Five 
Debt        42,750,000 
Instrument, 
Principal 
Payment, 
Due upon 
Maturity 
Proceeds                                                                 136,700,000 
from Lines 
of Credit 
Debt                                                                                 1.75%     0.75%                2.50%     1.50% 
Instrument, 
Basis 
Spread on 
Variable 
Rate 
Long-term                 14,200,000 
Debt, 
Maturities, 
Repayments 
of 
Principal 
in Next 
Twelve 
Months 
Long-term                 19,600,000 
Debt, 
Maturities, 
Repayments 
of 
Principal 
in Year Two 
Long-term                 21,400,000 
Debt, 
Maturities, 
Repayments 
of 
Principal 
in Year 
Three 
Long-term                 26,700,000 
Debt, 
Maturities, 
Repayments 
of 
Principal 
in Year 
Four 
Long-term               $ 49,900,000 
Debt, 
Maturities, 
Repayments 
of 
Principal 
in Year 
Five  

 
 
 
{1} In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, 
    the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
    administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), 
    consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a 
    maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit 
    facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from 
    $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to 
    applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is 
    payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in 
    December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in 
    years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with 
    the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of 
    the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to 
    repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous 
    credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 
    There are no amounts outstanding under the Revolver as of June 28, 2015.The 
    2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the 
    Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, 
    including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in 
    compliance with these covenants as of June 28, 2015. Outstanding amounts 
    under the 2014 Credit Facility bear interest at the Company's option at 
    either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined 
    by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 
    basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of 
    the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.Future payments 
    under the term loan are as follows: $14.2 million - 2016, $19.6 million - 
    2017, $21.4 million - 2018, $26.7 million - 2019 and $49.9 million - 2020. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Number of required periodic payments applied to debt instrument. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DebtInstrumentNumberOfInstallmentPayment 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Amount of the required payment upon maturity applied to principal. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DebtInstrumentPrincipalPaymentDueUponMaturity 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the percentage of principal to be paid in year five. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DebtInstrumentPrincipalPaymentPercentageInYearFive 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the percentage of principal to be paid in years one and two. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DebtInstrumentPrincipalPaymentPercentageInYearOneAndTwo 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the percentage of principal to be paid in years three and four. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DebtInstrumentPrincipalPaymentPercentageInYearThreeAndFour 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note9LongTermDebtDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DebtInstrumentBasisSpreadOnVariableRate1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DebtInstrumentTerm 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LineOfCreditFacilityMaximumBorrowingCapacity 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebt 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_LongTermDebtMaturitiesRepaymentsOfPrincipalInNextTwelveMonths 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtMaturitiesRepaymentsOfPrincipalInYearFive 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtMaturitiesRepaymentsOfPrincipalInYearFour 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtMaturitiesRepaymentsOfPrincipalInYearThree 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtMaturitiesRepaymentsOfPrincipalInYearTwo 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProceedsFromLinesOfCredit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 9 - Long-Term Debt (Details) - Current and Long-Term Debt  Jun. 28, 2015  Jun. 29, 
                        Summary (USD $)                                           2014 
            In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Note 9 - Long-Term Debt (Details) - Current and Long-Term Debt 
Summary {Line Items} 
Revolver (1)                                                               {1}         {1} 
Bank loan (2)                                                          293 {2}     343 {2} 
Total debt                                                         132,106         343 
Less: current maturities of long-term debt                          14,543         343 
Long-term debt                                                     117,563           0 
Term Loan {Member} 
Note 9 - Long-Term Debt (Details) - Current and Long-Term Debt 
Summary {Line Items} 
Term Loan (1)                                                    $ 131,813 {1}         {1}  

 
 
 
{1} In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, 
    the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as 
    administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), 
    consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a 
    maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit 
    facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from 
    $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to 
    applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is 
    payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in 
    December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in 
    years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with 
    the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of 
    the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to 
    repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous 
    credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 
    There are no amounts outstanding under the Revolver as of June 28, 2015.The 
    2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the 
    Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, 
    including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in 
    compliance with these covenants as of June 28, 2015. Outstanding amounts 
    under the 2014 Credit Facility bear interest at the Company's option at 
    either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined 
    by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 
    basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of 
    the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.Future payments 
    under the term loan are as follows: $14.2 million - 2016, $19.6 million - 
    2017, $21.4 million - 2018, $26.7 million - 2019 and $49.9 million - 2020. 
{2} Bank loan assumed through the Company's acquisition of a majority interest 
    in iFlorist. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note9LongTermDebtDetailsCurrentandLongTermDebtSummaryLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DebtAndCapitalLeaseObligations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LineOfCredit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LoansPayableToBank 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebt 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtAndCapitalLeaseObligations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermDebtAndCapitalLeaseObligationsCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Details) - Assets and   Jun. 28,    Jun. 29, 
        Liabilities Measured at Fair Value (USD $)            2015        2014 
         In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Details) - Assets and 
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value {Line Items} 
Trading securities held in a &#x201C;rabbi trust&#x201D;   $ 3,118 {1} $ 2,146 {1} 
Total fair falue disclosure                                  3,118       2,146 
Fair Value, Inputs, Level 1 {Member} 
Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Details) - Assets and 
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value {Line Items} 
Trading securities held in a &#x201C;rabbi trust&#x201D;     3,118 {1}   2,146 {1} 
Total fair falue disclosure                                  3,118       2,146 
Fair Value, Inputs, Level 2 {Member} 
Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Details) - Assets and 
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value {Line Items} 
Trading securities held in a &#x201C;rabbi trust&#x201D;           {1}         {1} 
Fair Value, Inputs, Level 3 {Member} 
Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements (Details) - Assets and 
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value {Line Items} 
Trading securities held in a &#x201C;rabbi trust&#x201D;           {1}         {1}  

 
 
 
{1} The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 
    (Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans) for certain members of senior 
    management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds 
    held in a "rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of 
    the NQDC Plan Trading securities held in the rabbi trust are measured using 
    quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other 
    assets, with the corresponding liability included in Other liabilities, in 
    the consolidated balance sheets. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note10FairValueMeasurementsDetailsAssetsandLiabilitiesMeasuredatFairValueLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_FairValueNetAssetLiability 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TradingSecurities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
              Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) (USD $)               Jun. 28, 2015 
              In Millions, unless otherwise specified 
Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) {Line Items} 
Unrecognized Tax Benefits                                                    $ 0.6 
Unrecognized Tax Benefits, Income Tax Penalties and Interest Accrued           0.1 
Domestic Tax Authority {Member} 
Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) {Line Items} 
Operating Loss Carryforwards                                                   2.5 
Operating Loss Carryforwards, Limitation on Use                                0.3 
Foreign Tax Authority {Member} 
Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) {Line Items} 
Operating Loss Carryforwards                                                   7.5 
State and Local Jurisdiction {Member} 
Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) {Line Items} 
Operating Loss Carryforwards                                                 $ 6.2 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note11IncomeTaxesDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the amount of operating loss carryforward limitations based on Internal Revenue Service 
regulations. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_OperatingLossCarryforwardsLimitationOnUse 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLossCarryforwards 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_UnrecognizedTaxBenefits 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_UnrecognizedTaxBenefitsIncomeTaxPenaltiesAndInterestAccrued 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) -                12 Months Ended 
Income Tax Provision from Continuing 
         Operations (USD $) 
   In Thousands, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Current provision (benefit): 
Federal                                     $ 6,630       $ 6,439       $ 7,983 
State                                         1,840         1,247         1,845 
Foreign                                        (11)            11 
                                              8,459         7,697         9,828 
Deferred provision (benefit): 
Federal                                       1,970           773         (730) 
State                                           631            28          (25) 
Foreign                                       (130)          (95) 
                                              2,471           706         (755) 
Income tax expense                         $ 10,930       $ 8,403       $ 9,073 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_CurrentProvisionBenefitAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DeferredProvisionBenefitAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CurrentFederalTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CurrentForeignTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CurrentIncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_CurrentStateAndLocalTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredFederalIncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredForeignIncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredIncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredStateAndLocalIncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeTaxExpenseBenefit 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) -                12 Months Ended 
      Effective Income Tax Rate 
           Reconciliation 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Effective Income Tax Rate 
Reconciliation {Abstract} 
Tax at U.S. statutory rates           35.00%        35.00%        35.00% 
State income taxes, net of federal    3.80%         3.70%         3.30% 
tax benefit 
Valuation allowance change            2.60%         1.50% 
Rate differences                      1.10%         1.20%         (0.30%) 
Tax settlements                       1.40%         (1.00%)       1.10% 
Deductible stock-based compensation   (1.30%)       (0.20%)       (0.10%) 
Domestic production deduction         (2.20%)       (1.90%)       (1.80%) 
Tax credits                           (3.90%)       (1.70%)       (1.20%) 
Other, net                            (0.40%)       1.00%         0.60% 
                                      36.10%        37.60%        36.60% 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationAtFederalStatutoryIncomeTaxRate 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationChangeInDeferredTaxAssetsValuationAllowance 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationChangeInEnactedTaxRate 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationDeductionsOther 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationDeductionsQualifiedProductionActivities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationOtherAdjustments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationStateAndLocalIncomeTaxes 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTaxCredits 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTaxSettlements 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        num:percentItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 11 - Income Taxes (Details) - Deferred Income Tax Assets  Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 
                    (Liabilities) (USD $) 
           In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Deferred income tax assets: 
Net operating loss and credit carryforwards                          $ 6,743       $ 4,342 
Accrued expenses and reserves                                          5,921         6,178 
Stock-based compensation                                               3,622         3,420 
Book in excess of tax depreciation                                         0         1,322 
Gross deferred income tax assets                                      16,286        15,262 
Less: Valuation allowance                                            (4,589)       (2,241) 
                                                                      11,697        13,021 
Deferred income tax liabilities: 
Other intangibles                                                   (23,307)       (6,512) 
Tax in excess of book depreciation                                  (26,197)             0 
                                                                    (49,504)       (6,512) 
Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities)                      $ (37,807)       $ 6,509 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DeferredIncomeTaxAssetsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DeferredIncomeTaxLiabilitiesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset 
attributable to deductible operating loss carryforwards and tax effect as of 
the balance sheet date of the amount of future tax deductions arising from all 
unused tax credit carryforward. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DeferredTaxAssetsOperatingLossAndTaxCreditCarryforwards 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Amount, before allocation of valuation allowances, of deferred tax liability 
attributable to deductible temporary differences from other intangibles 
excluding goodwill. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_DeferredTaxLiabilitiesOtherIntangibleAssets 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredIncomeTaxLiabilities 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsGross 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsLiabilitiesNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsTaxDeferredExpenseCompensationAndBenefitsShareBasedCompensationCost 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsTaxDeferredExpenseReservesAndAccruals 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxAssetsValuationAllowance 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DeferredTaxLiabilitiesPropertyPlantAndEquipment 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 12 - Capital    1 Months Ended              12 Months Ended 
 Stock (Details) (USD 
          $) 
                       Jun. 28, 2015  Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Note 12 - Capital 
Stock (Details) {Line 
Items} 
Conversion of Stock,                              1 
Shares of Class A 
Common Stock Converted 
from a Share of Class 
B Common Stock 
Stock Repurchase         $ 25,000,000 
Program, Additional 
Authorized Amount 
Treasury Stock, Value,                    8,360,000     8,317,000     9,599,000 
Acquired, Cost Method 
Treasury Stock,                           1,056,038     1,561,206     2,490,065 
Shares, Acquired 
Stock Repurchase         $ 27,300,000  $ 27,300,000 
Program, Remaining 
Authorized Repurchase 
Amount 
Common Class A 
{Member} 
Note 12 - Capital 
Stock (Details) {Line 
Items} 
Number of Voting                    1             1 
Rights per Share 
Stock Issued During                       2,748,550 
Period, Shares, 
Conversion of 
Convertible Securities 
Common Class B 
{Member} 
Note 12 - Capital 
Stock (Details) {Line 
Items} 
Number of Voting                   10            10 
Rights per Share 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Number of shares of Class A Common Stock which are converted from a share of Class B Common Stock. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_ConversionOfStockSharesOfClassACommonStockConvertedFromAShareOfClassBCommonStock 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note12CapitalStockDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Number of voting rights per common stock. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_NumberOfVotingRightsPerShare 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the increase in amount available to repurchase shares under the stock 
repurchase plan authorized by the entity's Board of Directors. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_StockRepurchaseProgramAdditionalAuthorizedAmount 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodSharesConversionOfConvertibleSecurities 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockRepurchaseProgramRemainingAuthorizedRepurchaseAmount1 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockSharesAcquired 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_TreasuryStockValueAcquiredCostMethod 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation               12 Months Ended 
        (Details) (USD $) 
  In Millions, unless otherwise 
            specified 
                                    Jun. 28, 2015   Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Share-based Compensation                       12.5 
Arrangement by Share-based Payment 
Award, Number of Shares Authorized 
(in Shares) 
Share-based Compensation           0.00%            0.00%         0.00% 
Arrangement by Share-based Payment 
Award, Fair Value Assumptions, 
Expected Dividend Rate 
Share-based Compensation                      $ 3.6         $ 0.4         $ 0.6 
Arrangement by Share-based Payment 
Award, Options, Exercises in 
Period, Intrinsic Value 
Employee Stock Option {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Employee Service Share-based                    1.8 
Compensation, Nonvested Awards, 
Compensation Cost Not yet 
Recognized 
Employee Service Share-based       3 years 328 days 
Compensation, Nonvested Awards, 
Compensation Cost Not yet 
Recognized, Period for Recognition 
Restricted Stock {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Employee Service Share-based                  $ 8.1 
Compensation, Nonvested Awards, 
Compensation Cost Not yet 
Recognized 
Employee Service Share-based       2 years 219 days 
Compensation, Nonvested Awards, 
Compensation Cost Not yet 
Recognized, Period for Recognition 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note13StockbasedCompensationDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationNonvestedAwardsTotalCompensationCostNotYetRecognized 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationNonvestedAwardsTotalCompensationCostNotYetRecognizedPeriodForRecognition1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardFairValueAssumptionsExpectedDividendRate 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardNumberOfSharesAuthorized 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisesInPeriodTotalIntrinsicValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation                12 Months Ended 
(Details) - Stock-based Compensation 
     Expense Recognized (USD $) 
   In Thousands, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) - Stock-based Compensation 
Expense Recognized {Line Items} 
Share-based compensation expense            $ 5,962       $ 4,664       $ 4,283 
Deferred income tax benefit                   2,087         1,738         1,555 
Stock-based compensation expense, net         3,875         2,926         2,728 
Employee Stock Option {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) - Stock-based Compensation 
Expense Recognized {Line Items} 
Share-based compensation expense                459           420           477 
Restricted Stock {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation 
(Details) - Stock-based Compensation 
Expense Recognized {Line Items} 
Share-based compensation expense            $ 5,503       $ 4,244       $ 3,806 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note13StockbasedCompensationDetailsStockbasedCompensationExpenseRecognizedLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AllocatedShareBasedCompensationExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AllocatedShareBasedCompensationExpenseNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationTaxBenefitFromCompensationExpense 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation                12 Months Ended 
(Details) - Allocation of Stock-based 
 Compensation to Operating Expenses 
               (USD $) 
   In Thousands, unless otherwise 
              specified 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Share-based Compensation Arrangement 
by Share-based Payment Award, 
Compensation Cost {Line Items} 
Stock-based compensation expense            $ 5,962       $ 4,664       $ 4,283 
Selling and Marketing Expense 
{Member} 
Share-based Compensation Arrangement 
by Share-based Payment Award, 
Compensation Cost {Line Items} 
Stock-based compensation expense              1,866         1,261         1,499 
Technology and development {Member} 
Share-based Compensation Arrangement 
by Share-based Payment Award, 
Compensation Cost {Line Items} 
Stock-based compensation expense                392           298           428 
General and Administrative Expense 
{Member} 
Share-based Compensation Arrangement 
by Share-based Payment Award, 
Compensation Cost {Line Items} 
Stock-based compensation expense            $ 3,704       $ 3,105       $ 2,356 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_AllocatedShareBasedCompensationExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_EmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationAllocationOfRecognizedPeriodCostsLineItems 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
   Note 13 - Stock-based                      12 Months Ended 
  Compensation (Details) - 
  Stock-based Compensation 
 Valuation Assumptions (USD 
             $) 
                              Jun. 28, 2015    Jun. 29, 2014    Jun. 30, 2013 
Stock-based Compensation 
Valuation Assumptions 
{Abstract} 
Weighted average fair value            $ 4.86           $ 3.16           $ 2.95 
of options granted (in 
Dollars per share) 
Expected volatility          52.00%           61.00%           72.00% 
Expected life (in years)     7 years 109 days 6 years 219 days 6 years 146 days 
Risk-free interest rate      1.90%            1.60%            0.70% 
Expected dividend yield      0.00%            0.00%            0.00% 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_StockBasedCompensationValuationAssumptionsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardFairValueAssumptionsExpectedDividendRate 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationArrangementBySharebasedPaymentAwardFairValueAssumptionsExpectedTerm1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardFairValueAssumptionsExpectedVolatilityRate 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardFairValueAssumptionsRiskFreeInterestRate 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsGrantsInPeriodWeightedAverageGrantDateFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Details) - Stock Option Activity  12 Months Ended 
               (Employee Stock Option {Member}, USD $) 
     In Thousands, except Share data, unless otherwise specified 
                                                                        Jun. 28, 2015 
Employee Stock Option {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Details) - Stock Option Activity 
{Line Items} 
Outstanding beginning of period                                               4,339,790 
Outstanding beginning of period                                                  $ 3.80 
Granted                                                                          75,000 
Granted                                                                          $ 8.83 
Exercised                                                                     (853,170) 
Exercised                                                                        $ 6.44 
Forfeited/Expired                                                             (216,474) 
Forfeited/Expired                                                                $ 8.44 
Outstanding end of period                                                     3,345,146 
Outstanding end of period                                                        $ 2.93 
Outstanding end of period                                              4 years 109 days 
Outstanding end of period                                                      $ 24,910 
Options vested or expected to vest at end of period                           3,241,485 
Options vested or expected to vest at end of period                              $ 2.93 
Options vested or expected to vest at end of period                    4 years 73 days 
Options vested or expected to vest at end of period                              24,141 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015                                                  2,095,246 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015                                                     $ 3.04 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015                                           3 years 36 days 
Exercisable at June 28, 2015                                                   $ 15,371 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note13StockbasedCompensationDetailsStockOptionActivityLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationArrangementBySharebasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisableIntrinsicValue1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisableNumber 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisableWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationArrangementBySharebasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisableWeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsForfeituresAndExpirationsInPeriodWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsForfeituresInPeriod 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsGrantsInPeriodGross 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsOutstandingIntrinsicValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsOutstandingNumber 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsOutstandingWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationArrangementBySharebasedPaymentAwardOptionsOutstandingWeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm2 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsVestedAndExpectedToVestOutstandingAggregateIntrinsicValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsVestedAndExpectedToVestOutstandingNumber 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsVestedAndExpectedToVestOutstandingWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationArrangementBySharebasedPaymentAwardOptionsVestedAndExpectedToVestOutstandingWeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementsByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsExercisesInPeriodWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementsByShareBasedPaymentAwardOptionsGrantsInPeriodWeightedAverageExercisePrice 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_StockIssuedDuringPeriodSharesStockOptionsExercised 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:sharesItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Details) - Stock Options Outstanding 12 Months Ended 
                                (USD $) 
                                                                          Jun. 28, 2015 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                 3,345,146 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        4 years 109 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 2.93 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                 2,095,246 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 3.04 
Exercise Price Range 1 {Member} 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Exercise price range, lower range limit                                            $ 1.69 
Exercise price range, upper range limit                                            $ 1.79 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                 1,003,500 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        5 years 109 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 1.79 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                   501,000 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 1.79 
Exercise Price Range 2 {Member} 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Exercise price range, lower range limit                                            $ 2.22 
Exercise price range, upper range limit                                            $ 2.88 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                 1,053,000 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        6 years 109 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 2.62 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                   422,600 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 2.61 
Exercise Price Range 3 {Member} 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Exercise price range, lower range limit                                            $ 3.11 
Exercise price range, upper range limit                                            $ 3.11 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                   959,755 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        328 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 3.11 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                   959,755 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 3.11 
Exercise Price Range 4 {Member} 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Exercise price range, lower range limit                                            $ 3.26 
Exercise price range, upper range limit                                            $ 9.25 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                   276,391 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        4 years 73 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 6.32 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                   184,391 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 6.09 
Exercise Price Range 5 {Member} 
Share-based Compensation, Shares Authorized under Stock Option Plans, 
Exercise Price Range {Line Items} 
Exercise price range, lower range limit                                            $ 9.74 
Exercise price range, upper range limit                                           $ 10.20 
Options outstanding (in Shares)                                                    52,500 
Options outstanding - weighted average remaining contractual life        5 years 328 days 
Options outstanding - weighted average exercise price                              $ 9.99 
Options exercisable (in Shares)                                                    27,500 
Options exercisable - weighted average exercise price                              $ 9.80 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeExercisableOptionsWeightedAverageExercisePrice1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeLineItems 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeLowerRangeLimit 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeNumberOfExercisableOptions 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeNumberOfOutstandingOptions 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeOutstandingOptionsWeightedAverageExercisePriceBeginningBalance1 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_SharebasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeOutstandingOptionsWeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm2 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationSharesAuthorizedUnderStockOptionPlansExercisePriceRangeUpperRangeLimit 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
     Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Details) - Non-vested      12 Months Ended 
   Restricted Stock Activity (Restricted Stock {Member}, USD $) 
                                                                     Jun. 28, 2015 
Restricted Stock {Member} 
Note 13 - Stock-based Compensation (Details) - Non-vested 
Restricted Stock Activity {Line Items} 
Non-vested &#x2013; beginning of period                                   2,686,685 
Non-vested &#x2013; beginning of period                                      $ 3.90 
Granted                                                                     976,882 
Granted                                                                      $ 8.09 
Vested                                                                  (1,154,173) 
Vested                                                                       $ 3.48 
Forfeited                                                                 (167,342) 
Forfeited                                                                    $ 7.14 
Non-vested - end of period                                                2,342,052 
Non-vested - end of period                                                   $ 5.62 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note13StockbasedCompensationDetailsNonvestedRestrictedStockActivityLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsForfeitedInPeriod 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsForfeituresWeightedAverageGrantDateFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsGrantsInPeriod 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsGrantsInPeriodWeightedAverageGrantDateFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsNonvestedNumber 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsNonvestedWeightedAverageGrantDateFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsVestedInPeriod 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:sharesItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_ShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardEquityInstrumentsOtherThanOptionsVestedInPeriodWeightedAverageGrantDateFairValue 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:perShareItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans               12 Months Ended 
          (Details) (USD $) 
                                      Jun. 28, 2015 Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Defined Contribution Plan, Required   21 years 
Age of Employees to Become Eligible 
to Participate 
Defined Contribution Plan, Number of  1 month 
Months of Service Must be Completed 
to Participate 
Deferred Compensation, Excluding 
Share-based Payments and Retirement 
Benefits {Member} 
Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Defined Benefit Plan, Percentage of   50.00% 
Employer Matching Contribution on 
Deferrals Made by Each Participant 
Deferred Compensation Arrangement       $ 3,100,000   $ 2,100,000 
with Individual, Recorded Liability 
Interest Expense {Member} 
Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Deferred Compensation Arrangement           200,000       300,000       200,000 
with Individual, Gain (Loss) on 
Investment 
Minimum {Member} 
Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Defined Benefit Plan, Participants    1.00% 
Deferment, Percentage of Salary and 
Performance and Non-performance Based 
Bonus 
Maximum {Member} 
Note 14 - Employee Retirement Plans 
(Details) {Line Items} 
Defined Benefit Plan, Participants    100.00% 
Deferment, Percentage of Salary and 
Performance and Non-performance Based 
Bonus 
Defined Benefit Plan, Employer                2,500 
Matching Contribution per 
Participant, Amount 
Deferred Compensation Arrangement         $ 100,000     $ 100,000     $ 100,000 
with Individual, Employer 
Contribution 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
The difference between fair value of a deferred compensation plan's assets at 
the end of the period and the fair value at the beginning of the period, 
adjusted for contributions and payments of benefits during the period, and 
after adjusting for taxes and other expenses, as applicable. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DeferredCompensationArrangementWithIndividualGainLossOnInvestment 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represent the amount per participant, by the terms of the plan, that the employer may 
contribute based on the deferral made by each participant. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DefinedBenefitPlanEmployerMatchingContributionPerParticipantAmount 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the participants deferment percentage of salary and performance and 
non-performance based bonus under nonqualified supplemental deferred 
compensation plan. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DefinedBenefitPlanParticipantsDefermentPercentageOfSalaryAndPerformanceAndNonperformanceBasedBonus 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the percentage of employer matching contribution on deferrals made by each 
participant during the applicable period. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DefinedBenefitPlanPercentageOfEmployerMatchingContributionOnDeferralsMadeByEachParticipant 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      num:percentItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the number of months of service that must be completed to participate under 401(k) Profit 
Sharing Plan. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DefinedContributionPlanNumberOfMonthsOfServiceMustBeCompletedToParticipate 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the required age of employees to become eligible to participate under 401(k) Profit Sharing 
Plan. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_DefinedContributionPlanRequiredAgeOfEmployeesToBecomeEligibleToParticipate 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:durationItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note14EmployeeRetirementPlansDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DeferredCompensationArrangementWithIndividualEmployerContribution 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DeferredCompensationArrangementWithIndividualRecordedLiability 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 15 - Business Segments (Details) (USD $)    12 Months Ended 
     In Millions, unless otherwise specified 
                                                    Jun. 28, 2015 
Note 15 - Business Segments (Details) {Line Items} 
Number of Reportable Segments                                    3 
Harry and David Holdings, Inc. {Member} 
Note 15 - Business Segments (Details) {Line Items} 
Business Combination, Integration Related Costs              $ 9.6 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note15BusinessSegmentsDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_BusinessCombinationIntegrationRelatedCosts 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_NumberOfReportableSegments 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:integerItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
Note 15 - Business Segments (Details) -                12 Months Ended 
      Segment Performance (USD $) 
    In Thousands, unless otherwise 
               specified 
                                         Jun. 28, 2015  Jun. 29, 2014  Jun. 30, 2013 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                             $ 1,121,506      $ 756,345      $ 735,497 
Contribution Margin                         147,816         94,089         93,149 
Depreciation and amortization              (29,124)       (19,848)       (18,798) 
Operating income                             37,617         23,706         25,786 
Intersegment Eliminations {Member} 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                                 (1,634)        (1,977)        (1,865) 
Consumer Floral {Member} 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                                 422,199        421,336        411,526 
Contribution Margin                          43,529         40,252         47,193 
BloomNet Wire Service {Member} 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                                  85,968 {1}     84,199 {1}     81,822 {1} 
Contribution Margin                          29,398 {1}     26,715 {1}     25,611 {1} 
Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets {Member} 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                                 613,953 {1}    251,990 {1}    243,225 {1} 
Contribution Margin                          74,889 {1}     27,122 {1}     20,345 {1} 
Corporate Segment {Member} 
Segment Reporting Information {Line 
Items} 
Net Revenue                                   1,020            797            789 
Corporate (2)                            $ (81,075) {2} $ (50,535) {2} $ (48,565) {2}  

 
 
 
{1} Refer to Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May warehouse and distribution 
    facility. On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple 
    Heights, Ohiowarehouse and distribution facility. As a result of the fire, 
    the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and 
    Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as 
    for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during its fiscal second and third 
    quarter. As a result, the Company's revenues and income from operations 
    were negatively impacted. The Company does not believe that there will be 
    any further significant impact from this issue beyond the year ended June 
    28, 2015. 
{2} Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost 
    centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human 
    Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service 
    Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation, and during the year 
    ended June 28, 2015 acquisition and integration costs (including severance) 
    related to the acquisition of Harry & David, in the amount of $9.6 million. 
    In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are 
    operated under a centralized management platform, providing support 
    services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other 
    than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to 
    the above segments based upon usage, are included within corporate 
    expenses, as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. The 
    Company has commenced integrating Harry & David into its operating 
    platforms, and as such, their operating costs have been classified in a 
    similar manner. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Aggregate revenue less variable costs directly attributable to the revenue generation activity. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_ContributionMargin 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Shared service cost center expenses not directly allocated to operating segments. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_SharedServiceCostsNotAllocatedToSegments 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DepreciationAndAmortization 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingIncomeLoss 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SalesRevenueNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_SegmentReportingInformationLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
    Note 16 -           12 Months Ended                3 Months Ended 
  Discontinued 
   Operations 
 (Details) (USD 
       $) 
                  Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013  Jun. 30, 2013    Dec. 29, 2013 
                                                Winetasting      Winetasting 
                                              Network {Member} Network {Member} 
                                                 Scenario,     Scenario, Actual 
                                                 Previously    {Member} Gourmet 
                                                  Reported       Food & Gift 
                                              {Member} Gourmet Baskets {Member} 
                                                Food & Gift 
                                              Baskets {Member} 
Note 16 - 
Discontinued 
Operations 
(Details) {Line 
Items} 
Discontinued      $ (1,300,000)   $ 2,348,000    $ (2,300,000) 
Operation, Gain 
(Loss) from 
Disposal of 
Discontinued 
Operation, before 
Income Tax 
Discontinued            815,000   (1,512,000)      (1,500,000) 
Operation, Gain 
(Loss) on 
Disposal of 
Discontinued 
Operation, Net of 
Tax 
Proceeds from                                                       (1,000,000) 
Divestiture of 
Businesses 
Discontinued          1,300,000 
Operation, Amount 
of Adjustment to 
Prior Period Gain 
(Loss) on 
Disposal, before 
Income Tax 
Discontinued          $ 800,000 
Operation, Amount 
of Adjustment to 
Prior Period Gain 
(Loss) on 
Disposal, Net of 
Tax 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note16DiscontinuedOperationsDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationAmountOfAdjustmentToPriorPeriodGainLossOnDisposalBeforeIncomeTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationAmountOfAdjustmentToPriorPeriodGainLossOnDisposalNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationGainLossFromDisposalOfDiscontinuedOperationBeforeIncomeTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationGainLossOnDisposalOfDiscontinuedOperationNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ProceedsFromDivestitureOfBusinesses 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 16 - Discontinued Operations (Details) - Results for         12 Months Ended 
              Discontinued Operations (USD $) 
          In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
                                                             Jun. 29, 2014 Jun. 30, 2013 
Results for Discontinued Operations {Abstract} 
Net revenues from discontinued operations                          $ 1,669       $ 5,154 
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax                         (86)       (1,889) 
Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax             815       (1,512) 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations                           $ 729     $ (3,401) 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_ResultsForDiscontinuedOperationsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DiscontinuedOperationGainLossOnDisposalOfDiscontinuedOperationNetOfTax 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_DisposalGroupIncludingDiscontinuedOperationOperatingIncomeLoss 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   credit 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DisposalGroupIncludingDiscontinuedOperationRevenue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_IncomeLossFromDiscontinuedOperationsNetOfTax 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 17 -           12 Months Ended                 0 Months Ended                                   0 Months Ended        12 Months 
 Commitments                                                                                                                   Ended 
     and 
Contingencies 
  (Details) 
   (USD $) 
               Jun. 28,   Jun. 29,   Jun. 30,  Jan. 29, 2015  Nov. 20, 2014  Jun. 28,   Jun. 28,    Mar. 15,    Mar. 06,   Jun. 28, 2015 
                 2015       2014       2013        Edible         Edible       2015     2015 Land     2012        2012       Technology 
                                                Arrangements   Arrangements  Letter of     and       Minimum     Minimum   Infrastructure 
                                               LLC and Edible LLC and Edible  Credit    Building    {Member}    {Member}      {Member} 
                                                Arrangements   Arrangements  {Member}   {Member}      Class       Class 
                                               International, International,                        Action 2    Action 1 
                                                LLC {Member}   LLC {Member}                         {Member}    {Member} 
Note 17 - 
Commitments 
and 
Contingencies 
(Details) 
{Line Items} 
Operating     1 year 
Lease, 
Minimum Term 
Operating                                                                              $ 3,000,000 
Leases, 
Future 
Minimum 
Payments Due, 
Future 
Minimum 
Sublease 
Rentals 
Operating     28,300,000 17,700,000 17,700,000 
Leases, Rent 
Expense, Net 
Long-term                                                                                                                       4,900,000 
Purchase 
Commitment, 
Amount 
Debt                                                                         2,500,000 
Instrument, 
Unused 
Borrowing 
Capacity, 
Amount 
Loss                                            $ 101,436,000   $ 97,411,000                       $ 5,000,000 $ 5,000,000 
Contingency, 
Damages 
Sought, Value 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_Note17CommitmentsandContingenciesDetailsLineItems 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the minimum term of operating lease. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_OperatingLeaseMinimumTerm 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:durationItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_DebtInstrumentUnusedBorrowingCapacityAmount 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LongTermPurchaseCommitmentAmount 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_LossContingencyDamagesSoughtValue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueFutureMinimumSubleaseRentals 
Namespace us-gaap_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Type: 
Balance   debit 
Type: 
Period    instant 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesRentExpenseNet 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies (Details) - Future Minimum   Jun. 28, 2015 
        Payments under Non-cancelable Operating Leases (USD $) 
               In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
Future Minimum Payments under Non-cancelable Operating Leases 
{Abstract} 
                                                                  2016      $ 24,338 
                                                                  2017        20,940 
                                                                  2018        15,980 
                                                                  2019        12,658 
                                                                  2020         9,826 
Thereafter                                                                    52,195 
Total minimum lease payments                                               $ 135,937 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_FutureMinimumPaymentsUnderNonCancelableOperatingLeasesAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDue 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueInFiveYears 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueInFourYears 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueInThreeYears 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueInTwoYears 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OperatingLeasesFutureMinimumPaymentsDueThereafter 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie                     12 Months Ended           7 Months Ended 
May Warehouse and Distribution 
  Facility (Details) (USD $) 
                                Jun. 28, 2015    Jun. 28, 2015 Fire      Jun. 28, 2015 Sales 
                                                      {Member}                 {Member} 
Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie 
May Warehouse and Distribution 
Facility (Details) {Line Items} 
Insurance Recoveries                                      $ 33,000,000                      $ 0 
Other Nonrecurring (Income)                                 33,000,000 
Expense 
Inventory Write-down                                        29,500,000 
Proceeds from Insurance,                                    30,000,000 
Advanced of Funds 
Insurance Receivable, Current     $ 2,979,000              $ 3,000,000 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Amount due from an insurance company when the Company has suffered a loss 
covered under an insurance policy. For classified balance sheets, represents 
the current amount receivable, that is amounts expected to be collected within 
one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_InsuranceReceivableCurrent 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note18FireattheFannieMayWarehouseandDistributionFacilityDetailsLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
Represents the cash inflow from insurance proceeds for warehouse fire related to property 
damage, representing an advance of funds. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             flws_ProceedsFromInsuranceAdvancedOfFunds 
Namespace Prefix: flws_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InsuranceRecoveries 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryWriteDown 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherNonrecurringIncomeExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
  Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution   12 Months Ended 
 Facility (Details) - Incremental Costs Related to Fannie May 
             Warehouse Fire (Fire {Member}, USD $) 
                                                                 Jun. 28, 2015 
Fire {Member} 
Note 18 - Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution 
Facility (Details) - Incremental Costs Related to Fannie May 
Warehouse Fire {Line Items} 
Loss on inventory                                                  $ 29,522,000 
Other fire related costs                                              3,487,000 
                                                                     33,009,000 
Less: Fire related recoveries                                    $ (33,009,000) 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:     flws_Note18FireattheFannieMayWarehouseandDistributionFacilityDetailsIncrementalCostsRelatedtoFannieMayWarehouseFireLineItems 
Namespace flws_ 
Prefix: 
Data      xbrli:stringItemType 
Type: 
Balance   na 
Type: 
Period    duration 
Type: 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InsuranceRecoveries 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_InventoryWriteDown 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherNonrecurringExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_OtherNonrecurringIncomeExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

v2.4.0.8 
 
 
 
 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying                  12 Months Ended 
   Accounts (Details) - Valuation and 
      Qualifying Accounts (USD $) 
In Thousands, unless otherwise specified 
                                          Jun. 28, 2015   Jun. 29, 2014   Jun. 30, 2013 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
{Abstract} 
Balance at Beginning of Period           $ 2,443,000     $ 2,488,000     $ 2,408,000 
Charged to Costs and Expenses              1,295,000       1,656,000       1,085,000 
Deductions- Describe                     (1,503,000) {1} (1,701,000) {1} (1,005,000) {1} 
Balance at End of Period                 $ 2,235,000     $ 2,443,000     $ 2,488,000  

 
 
 
{1} Reduction in reserve due to write-off of accounts/notes receivable balances. 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAllowancesAndReservesBalance 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      instant 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAllowancesAndReservesChargedToCostAndExpense 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     credit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Definition 
No authoritative reference available. 
+ References 
No definition available. 
+ Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAllowancesAndReservesDeductions 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:monetaryItemType 
Balance Type:     debit 
Period Type:      duration 
  

 
 
 
X 
- Details 
  

 
 
 
Name:             us-gaap_ValuationAndQualifyingAccountsAbstract 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ 
Data Type:        xbrli:stringItemType 
Balance Type:     na 
Period Type:      duration 
  

{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
{graphic omitted} 
  
